https://crsreports.congress.gov
Updated  February 19, 2026
Defense Primer: Reserve Forces
The term reserve component  (RC) refers collectively to the
seven individual reserve components of the Armed Forces:
(1) the Army National Guard; (2) the Army Reserve; (3) the
Navy Reserve; (4) the Marine Corps Reserve; (5) the Air
National Guard (6) the Air Force Reserve; and (7) t he Coast
Guard Reserve.  The Space Force, under the Department of
the Air Force, does not have a reserve component ( 10
U.S.C. §20001 ).
The purpose of these seven reserve components, per 10
U.S.C. §10102 , is to “provide trained units and qualified
persons available for active duty in the armed forces, in
time of war or national emergency, and at such other times
as the nationa l security may require, to fill the needs of the
armed forces whenever more units and persons  are needed
than are in the regular components.” The Army and Air
National Guard s also have an important role under state
authority, responding to various emergenc ies such as
disasters and civil disorders.
Reserve Component Roles
Military policy  describes the reserve components as an
“operational force,” elaborating that
The RCs provide operational capabilities and
strategic depth to meet U.S. defense requirements
across the full spectrum of conflict ... In their
operational roles, RCs participate in a full range of
missions according to their Services’ force
generation plans.  Units and individuals participate
in missions in an established cyclic or periodic
manner that provides predictability for the
combatant commands, the Services, Service
members, their families, and employers. In their
strategic roles, RC units and individ uals train or are
available for missions in accordance with the
national defense strategy. As such, the RCs provide
strategic depth and are available to transition to
operational roles as needed.
The use of the RC increased  after 1991 . From  1986 to 1990 ,
the reserve components contributed approximately 3,000
person -years of active service. This increased to an annual
average of 35,000 person -years from 1996 -2001. From
2002 to 2010  (including part of  the conflicts  in Iraq and
Afghanistan, along with domestic and foreign
counterterrorism actions) , the RC contributed  an annual
average of 146,000 person -years  domestically and globally .
CRS has not found person -year figures for years after 2010.
Difference  between Federal Reserves
and National Guard
The Army Reserve, Navy Reserve, Marine Corps Reserve,
Air Force Reserve,  and Coast Guard Reserve  are exclusively federal organizations. There are 54 separate
National Guard organizations: one for each state, and one
each for Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and
the District of Columbia  (DC) . While the DC National
Guard is an exclusively federal organization and operates
under federal control at all times, the other 53 National
Guards operate as state or territorial organizations most of
the time. In this capacity, each of these organizations is
identified by its stat e or territorial name (e.g., the California
National Guard or the Puerto Rico National Guard) and is
controlled by its respective governor. National Guard units
and personnel can be ordered into federal service. When
this happens , control of the affected u nits and personnel
passes from the state governor to the President of the
United States.
Reserve Categories
Ready Reserve
The Ready Reserve is the primary manpower pool of the
reserve components.  Members of the Ready Reserve are
typically called to active duty before  members of the
Standby Reserve  or the Retired Reserve. The Ready
Reserve is made up of three subcomponents:
The Selected Reserve  contains those units and individuals
within the Ready Reserve designated as “ so essential to
initial wartime missions that they have pr iority over all
other Reserves .” (see Table 1).
Table 1. Selected Reserve Personnel Strength
Reserve Component  Selected
Reserve
Army National Guard  328,870
Army Reserve  169,519
Navy Reserve  58,165
Marine Corps Reserve  33,071
Air National Guard  105,120
Air Force Reserve  65,465
Total  760,210
Source : Department of Defense, Defense Manpower Data
Center,  Selected Reserve Personnel by Reserve Component and
Rank/Grade , September  2025.
Notes : These figures reflect the number of personnel in each of the
reserve components as of September 30, 2025 .
Members of the Selected Reserve are generally required to
perform one weekend of training each month and two
weeks of training each year , although some may train more
Defense Primer: Reserve Forces
https://crsreports.congress.gov  than this. When reservists are activated, they most
frequently come from this category .
The Individual Ready Reserve  (IRR) is a manpower pool
of individuals who have already received military training,
either in the Active Com ponent or in the Selected Reserve.
They are not normally required to perform  training , but can
be ordered to active duty under certain circumstances.  The
Inactive National Guard  (ING) is , for practical purposes,
the National Guard equivalent  of the IRR . There is
currently no ING for the Air National Guard.
Standby Reserve
The Standby Reserve contains those individuals who have a
temporary disability or hardship and those who hold ke y
positions in their civilian jobs.  They  are not required to
participate in  military training and may only be ordered to
active duty in limited circumstances .
Retired Reserve
The Retired Reserve includes  Reserve personnel who are
qualified  for reserve retirement. Members of the Retired
Reserve may be ordered to active duty only in limited
circumstances .
Full-Time Support
Reserve units are primarily filled by traditional reservists :
members of the Selected Reserve who are usually required
to work one weekend a month and two weeks a year.
However, many r eserve units are also staffed by one or
more full -time civilian and/or military employees. These
employees, known as full -time support (FTS) personnel, are
“assigned to organize; administer; instruct; recruit and train;
maintain supplies, equipment , and ai rcraft; and perform
other functions required on a daily basis in the execution of
operational missions and readiness preparation .” (DOD
Instruction 1205 .18)
Activations
There are four statutory provisions by which members of
the National Guard and Reserve can be involuntarily
ordered to federal active  duty for a year or more.
These are commonly referred to as Full Mobilization  (10
U.S.C. §12301(a) ), Partial Mobilization  (10 U.S.C.
§12302 ), and Presidential Reserve Call -up (10 U.S.C.
§12304 ), and activation in support of pre -planned missions
for the Combatant Commands  (10 U.S.C. §12304b ). These
provisions differ from each other in terms of the statutory
requirements for utilization, the number and category of
reservists authorized for call up, and the duration of the c all
up. Another authority added in 2011, provides for
involuntarily activating members of the Army Reserve,
Navy Reserve, Marine Corps Reserve, and Air Force
Reserve to respond to major disasters or emergencies, for
periods of up to 120 days ( 10 U.S.C. §12304a ).
In addition to activations under federal authority, members
of the National Guard can also be activated by their
governor s for full -time duty (i.e., state active duty ) owing to
their unique sta te/federal status. They can also be activated
under state control but with pay and benefits provided by
the federal government. This is sometimes referred to as Title 32  status in reference to the part of the United States
Code  that governs this duty status.
Pay, Benefits, and Duty Status
Reservists’ pay and benef its may vary significantly based
on the type of duty performed. Some key variables in
determining the compensation provided include (1) whether
an individual is performing active duty or inactive duty;
(2) if on active duty, the statutory authority under w hich the
individual is activated, the duration of the duty, and
whether the duty performed is in support of a contingency
operation; and (3) for the National Guard, whether the duty
is in a state status or federal status.
Issue s for Congress
• Congress may c onsider whether the reserves ’ structure,
resourcing, doctrines , and legislative authorities  enable
them  to fulfil both operational and strategic roles .
Congress might also consider how the balance of
capabilities between the RC and the active component
underpins those roles .
• Congress may consider changes to the RC duty status
system, such as those proposed in an August 2025
RAND Corporation report  and the Duty Status Reform
Act (H.R. 6976 ).
• Congress may consider the role of the reserve
components (and the Armed Forces in general) in
domestic security activities .
• Congress may  assess the RC’s operational and personnel
temp o (OPTEMPO and PERSTEMPO) in both federal
and state mobilizations and the potential impact on
servicemember  wellbeing and readiness.
• Congress may consider  whether  RC pay and benefits are
adequate to meet recruiting and retention targets .
Relevant Statutes
Title 10, U.S. Code , Subtitle E (Reserve Components)
Title 32, U.S. Code  (National Guard)
CRS Products
CRS Report RL30802, Reserve Component Personnel Issues:
Questions and Answers
CRS Report R43808, Army Active Component (AC)/Reserve
Component (RC) Force Mix: Considerations and Options for
Congress
Nicholas M. Munves , Analyst in U.S. Defense Policy
Carly A. Miller , Senior Research Librarian
Ebrima M'Bai , U.S. Army Fellow
IF10540
Defense Primer: Reserve Forces
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF10540  · VERSION 24 · UPDATED
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.