https://crsreports.congress.gov
Updated March 4, 2026
Problematic Substance Use  in the Military: Prevention ,
Treatment , and Research Efforts
In 1982, Congress enacted requirements for the Department
of Defense (DOD) , whic h is “using a secondary
Department of War designation,” under Executive Order
14347  dated September 5, 2025,  to “identify , treat,  and
rehabilitate  members of the armed forces who are
dependent o n drugs or alcohol. ” (10 U.S.C. §1090 ). Since
then, Congress ha s held a sustained interest in
understanding federal efforts and identifying options to
address substance use and misuse, particularly among
servicemembers .
The Uniform Code of Military Justice (10 U.S.C. §912a )
and DOD polic y generally prohibit the possession,
distribution, sale, or use  of certain substances  and the
misuse of certain substances . In light of  this prohibition,
DOD operates programs focused on prevention, treatment,
and research to address il licit drug use and misuse of
alcohol, prescription drugs , and other substances .
In April 2025, the Trump Administration published its
Statement of Drug Policy Priorities , which outlines federal
priorities and objectives  to address “illicit drug use that
plagues our Nation”  and ac knowledges  “the complexity  of
substance use disorder and addiction .” These priorities ,
among others,  seek to  “Reduce the Number of Overdose
Fatalities, with a Focus on Fentanyl,” “Prevent Drug Use
Before It Starts,” “Provide Treatment That Leads to Long -
Term Recovery,” and “Innovat e in Research and Data to
Support Drug Control Strategies.”
Terminology
Problematic substance  use. A DOD term that refers to
“the use of any substance in a manner that puts the user at
risk of failing in their responsibilities to mission or family and
that is considered unlawful by regulation, policy or law.”
(DOD Instruction 1010.04 )
Substance misuse.  “A pattern of substance use marked by
recurrent significant social, occupational, legal, or
interpersonal adverse consequences.”  (DOD Instruction
1010.04 )
Substance use  disorder . “A cluster of physiol ogical,
behavioral, and cognitive symptoms associated with the
continued use of substances despite substance -related
problems, distress, and/or impairment, such as impaired
control and risky use.” ( American Psychological Association )
Problematic Substance Use  Trends in the Military
According to the 2018 DOD Health -Related Behaviors
Survey , 1.3% of active duty servicemembers reported the
use of any illicit drugs (marijuana, synthetic cannabis or
stimulants, inhalants to get high, or other illegal drugs) in
the past year. Servicemembers also reported the following
substance use behaviors wit hin the past year: misusing
prescription drugs (1.4%), using nonprescription cough or cold medicine to get high (0.4%), and using nonprescription
anabolic steroids (0.2%). In addition, servicemembers
reported binge drinking (34.0%) and heavy drinking (9.9% )
in the past month.
The overall annual rates for new diagnoses  (i.e., incidence
rates) of alcohol or substance abuse disorders  among active
duty servicemembers have decreased from 2007 through
2024 (see Figure 1). The incidence rate for alcohol -related
disorders decreased from 1,663 per 100,000 person -years in
2007 to 1,088 per 100,000 in 202 4. The incidence rate for
substance -related disorders decre ased from 484 per 100,000
in 2013 to 2 00 per 100,000 in 202 4. In 202 2, DOD
estimated  that 2.1% of active duty servicemembers had a
diagnosis of an alcohol or substance use -related disorder  in
the past year  (i.e., prevalence estimate ). Prevalence
estimate s ranged  across the military services from 1.1%
(Air Force) to 3.1% (Army)  and wer e generally higher in
males (2.2%) than females (1.6%).
Figure 1. Incidence Rates of Alcohol and Substance
Abuse in Active Duty Servicemembers, 2007 -2024
Figure is interactive in the HTML version of this report.
Source: CRS graph ic based on analysis of Medical Surveillance
Monthly Reports from March 2018 , August 2021 , December 2024 ,
and December 2025 .
Notes:  Person -year i s a measure of time a defined population is at
risk for alcohol and substance abuse.
In 2024, DOD estimated  that substance use disorders were
among the primary reason s for medical encounters by
active duty servicemembers , accounting for 2.7% of  all
outpatient visits and 15.5% of hospital bed days. In 2025,
DOD reported  that the number  of fatal and nonfatal drug
overdoses among servicemembers have “dropped by more
than 40% from 2021 to 2023.” DOD  also reported that
between 2019 and 2023, the a verage fatal overdose rate
among servicemembers was 4.4 per 100,000 and asserted
that “ nationally , that number is about 29.2.”
Problematic Substance Use in the Military: Prevention, Treatment,  and Research Efforts
https://crsreports.congress.gov  Problematic Substance Use  and Military Readiness
Problematic substance use can create negative effects on
military readiness . These effects can include impacts to
servicemember health and deployability , cognitive
functioning, and workplace safety . Extended absences or
unplanned attriti on can impact a unit’s mission by creating
staffing and capability gaps, disrupt ing unit cohesion,
reduc ing morale, and perpetuat ing mental health stigma.
DOD Problematic Substance Use Prevention,
Compliance, and Disciplinary Policies
Table 1 lists selected  aspects of  DOD’s problematic
substance use policies , which are implemented by  various
DOD components  and military service s. These policies
focus on administrative and medical approaches to
prevention, screening, treatment, compliance, and retention
or separation  procedures .
Table 1. Selected Aspects of DOD  Problematic
Substance Use Policies
• Conduct substance use educa tion and awareness activities
• Implement a urinalysis drug  and breath alcohol  testing
program
• Conduct r egular and systematic medical screening for at -
risk problematic substance use and gambling disorder s
• Provide  evidence -based substance use disorder service s
to eligible servicemembers
• Return servicemembers to full duty following substance
use disorder treatment, if feasible
• Separate servicemembers  who knowingly misuse drugs
Source s: CRS analysis of DOD  Instruction  1010.01, “ Military
Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program ,” 2025; DOD  Instruction
1010.04, “ Problematic Substance Use and Gambling Disorder ,” 2025 ;
and DOD Instruction 1010.16 , “Technical Procedures for the Military
Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program ,” 2025 .
Prevention Efforts
DOD policy mandates  that servicemembers receive annual
training and information on the “prevention, identification,
and awareness of problematic substance use  and gambling
disorder risks  to health, and military readiness.” Each
military service  operates a n integrated primary prevention
program  that provide s a range of education and training
services for servicemembers, health care provi ders, and unit
commanders.  Prevention efforts also include the
anonymous Drug Take Back program  at “all military
pharmacies  in [the] United States ,” active health
surveillance for at -risk servicemembers, prescription drug
monitoring program , naloxone distribution program , and
annual screenings for problematic substance use behavior s.
Treatment Options
Servicemembers may receive treatment for substance use
disorders at certain military treatment facil ities ( MTFs ) or
through civilian health care providers participating in
TRICARE. Federal statute (10 U.S.C. §1079(a)(12) )
authorizes  TRICARE to cover services  or supplies  unless
determined “not medically or psychologically necessary.”
These services may include inpatient care, intensive
outpatient programs, office -based outpatient treatment ,
partial hospitalization programs, and residential programs.
Evaluation and treatment for substance use or misuse can
be self -initiated, or referred  by a supervisor, co -worker, or family member. To reduce  stigma when servicemembers
voluntarily access mental health care and substance misuse
treatment , DOD policy authorizes  MTF  health care
providers to notify a member’s supervisor only when
consent is provided or under a limited set of  “exigent
circumstances ” (e.g., risks of self-harm, harm to others, or
harm to mission ; designated personnel, inpatient
admission/di scharge ; command -directed evaluation ; or
other special circumstances).
Medical Research Efforts
DOD has conduct ed medical research on the clinical
aspects  of substance use or misuse , its impact on mi litary
readiness, and its comorbidity with other health issues (e.g.,
post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury ).
Congress has funded m any of these research efforts through
the Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program s
(CDMRP). Between FY2014 and FY2025, Congress
appropriat ed a total of $40 million to DOD for “alcohol and
substance abuse disorders” research under the CDMRP .
These r esearch projects  have typically focused on new
treatment targets, novel and repurposed med ications,
vaccines and other immunotherapies, drug -drug
combinations, and approaches to counteract opioid -related
overdose. For FY2026 , Congress appropriated $4 million
for CDMRP -funded research on “alcohol and substance
abuse disorders .” DOD may also use other research funds
appropriated to other accounts (e.g., Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency or the military departments)  to
conduct s ubstance use disorder research .
Considerations for Congress
Congress  may pursue  several lines of inquiry  in considering
problematic substance use in the military  and support
congressional oversight of DOD programs and initiatives to
prevent substan ce use and misuse.
• Section 724 of P.L. 118 -31 require d DOD to provide an
annual report (for five years after enactment) to the
House and Senate armed services committees on the
number of annual overdoses  (including demographic
and utilization data ) among members of the Air Force,
Army, Marine Corps, Navy, and Space Force.  Do these
reports adequately support congressional ov ersight
efforts on problematic substance use in the military?
• In 2020  and 2024 , the DOD Inspector General identified
MTF staffing shortages as a contributor, among other
factors, to  beneficiary challenges with accessing mental
health care. How has DOD addressed these staffing
shortages?
• The UCMJ and DOD poli cy mandate disciplinary
actions, including separation from military service, for
servicemembers who knowingly misuse certain
substances. Should the military services offer
servicemembers more  or less  opportunities to obtain
treatment prior to initiating di sciplinary action?
• What mental health or care coordination services , if any,
does DOD offer to servicemembers –and those
transitioning to civilian life –with problematic substance
use?
Quadre Nichols , Defense Health Fell ow
Bryce H. P. Mendez , Specialist in Defense Health Care
Policy
Problematic Substance Use in the Military: Prevention, Treatment, and Research Efforts
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF10951  · VERSION 5 · UPDATED   IF10951
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.