https://crsreports.congress.gov
Updated March 4, 2026
The Philippines
Overview and Recent Developments
The United States and the Republic of the Philippines
maintain a relationship  that include s a bilateral security
alliance, extensive military cooperation,  close  people -to-
people ties , and many shared  strategic  and economic
interests . The United States administered the Philippines as
a colonial territory (1898 -1946)  after 300 years of Spanish
rule. Over  4 million  people in the United States identify as
Filipino  alone or in combination , and the U.S. Dep artment
of Veterans Affairs operates its only office outside of the
United States in Manila, serving thousands of veterans of
the U.S. Armed Forces. The United States is the
Philippines’ third -largest  trading partner, after China and
Japan, and its largest  export market.
The Philippines has long played an important role in U.S.
Asia policy as a securit y and counterterrorism partner. The
1951 Mutual Defense Treaty  (MDT) commits  the two
coun tries to help defend each other against external armed
attack . Tensions between the Philippines and the People’s
Republic of China (PRC  or China ) over maritime claims  in
the South China Sea  are a potential flashpoint . Trump
Administration officials have  reaffirmed the “ironclad” U.S.
commitment to the Philippines , including by support ing the
Philippines’ military modernization, deploying advanced
missile systems in combined exercises,  and initiating a new
bilateral task force to deter PRC c oercion in the South
China Sea . As part of the National Defense Authorization
Act of 2026  (P.L. 119 -60), Congress authorized up to $2.5
billion in Foreign Military Financing  (FMF ) and up to  $1
billion in loans for military sales  for the Philippines .
In July  2025 , Philippine President Ferdinand “Bongbong”
Marcos Jr. visited the United States, meeting with President
Donald Trump and the U.S. secretaries of defense and state.
In addition to reaffirming the importance of the alliance, the
two sides announced  that the United States would provide
over $60 million in new foreign assistance  to support
energy, maritime, and economic growth programs. In
September 2025, the United States announced $250 million
in foreign assistance  to the Philippines to improve health
systems, disease detection and response, and maternal and
child health services.
Congress  has provided oversight, policy direction, and
funding to shape U.S. ties with th e Philippines, which is
located in the “first island chain” in the Pacific and could
play a key role in a regional conflict. Members also have
sought to shape U.S. policy on human rights and counter -
terrorism in the Philippines, as well as security  coopera tion
related to the South China Sea  and other contingencies .
Philippines Politics
In 2022, Filipinos elected Marcos Jr. as president and Sara
Duterte -Carpio as vice president.  Marcos’s father , Ferdinand Marcos Sr., ruled the country from 1965 to 1986,
including through martial law from 1972 until he was
ousted by the 1986 People Power Revolution. Sara Duterte
is the  daughter of former President Rodrigo Duterte  (in
office 2016 -2022). The Philippine constitution limits both
the president and vice president, w ho are elected on
separate tickets, to one six -year term . The Philippines held
midterm elections  in May 2025 , in which Marcos -aligned
candidates fared poorly compared to pre -election polling .
Prior to the election, in March 2025, Rodrigo Duterte was
extradited to the International Criminal Court to face
charges of crimes against humanity for his anti -drug war ;
he was formally charged in September .
The U.S. -Philippines Alliance
The MDT  undergirds security cooperation between the two
countries, and the Philippines generally has been a staunch
supporter of  an active  U.S. presence in the region . In
1992 —in the face of vocal Philippine opposition to  U.S.
military bases  and during a period of relative peace and
stability following the fall of the Soviet Unio n—the U.S.
military withdrew from the two bases it had operated since
the Philippine -American War (1899 -1902 ). In 1998, the
two countries signed a Visiting Forces Agreement. In 2014,
with increasing tensions in the South China Sea, the U.S.
and Philippine governments signed an Enhanced Defense
Cooperation Agreement (EDCA ), allow ing the rotational
presence of U.S. military forces, aircraft , and  ships at five
locations in the Philippines ; in February 2023, t he two
countries  agreed to increase the number of Ph ilippine
military bases open to U.S. forces to nine.
Figure 1. The Philippines at a Glance
In May 2023 , the two allies established new Bilateral
Defense Guidelines , which aim to help modernize
Philippine defense capabilities, deepen interoperability,
enhance bilateral planning  and information -sharing, and
combat transnational and nonconventional threats . The
guidelines  appear to reinforce treaty obligations, stating that
The Philippines
https://crsreports.congress.gov  an armed attack “anywhere in the South China Sea,” on
either par ty’s “armed forces —which includes both nations’
Coast Guards —aircraft, or public vessels, would invoke
mutual defense commitments” under the MDT.
The Philippines has been one of the largest recipient s of
U.S. military assistance in the East Asia -Pacific re gion,
including FMF  and assistance under the Department of
Defense’s (DOD’s) Indo -Pacific Maritime Security
Initiative.  U.S. military and Armed Forces of the
Philippines (AFP) personnel conduct regular joint military
exercises and maritime patrols, collabo rate on
counterterrorism, and carry out humanitarian activities. In
2025, over 1 4,000 primarily U.S. and AFP soldiers
participated in the Balikatan  annual bilateral exercise in the
Philippines.  Small contingents of Australian and Japanese
troops also joined.  The exercises included the deployment
of the Navy -Marine Expeditionary Ship Interdiction System
(NMESIS) in the Luzon Strait near Taiwan.  The Philippines
has announced its intention to purchase a U.S. Typhon
missile system, spurring China to warn t hat the Philippines
is sparking a regional “arms race.”
The Marcos administration  has strengthened security
relations with U.S. allies and partners, including Australia,
France, Germany, Japan, New Zealand, Vietnam , and India .
In April 2024, a U.S.-Japan -Philippines summit  was held in
Washington, DC, to promote trilateral cooperation in
multiple areas, including security, infrastructure investment
in the Philippines, and joint technology development. The
Philippines  signed a reciprocal access agreement  with Japan
in July 2024  and a status of visiting forces agreement with
New Zealand in April 2025 .
South China Sea
Tensions between the Philippines and China in the South
China Sea have risen  over the past two decades, particularly
since 2012  when the PRC seized de facto control of a
disputed reef known as Scarborough Shoal . China has
enlarg ed disputed features in the Spratly archipelago ,
including within the Philippines’ claimed exclusive
economic zone (which the Philippines refers to as the West
Philippine Sea) , placed military assets on these features,
and interfered with Philippine commercial and military
activity. Since 2019, PRC vessels have regularly
congregated near  Philippine -occupied land features and
harassed Philippine fishing , coast  guard , and other  vessels.
Since 2023, China  Coast Guard and maritime militia
vessels have escalated their interference with Philippine
boats attempting to conduct resupply missions to Second
Thomas  Shoal in the Spratly Islands chain. The Philippines
posts a cadre of marines on a now -derelict Philippine Navy
ship, the  BRP  Sierra Madre , which it grounded on the  shoal
in 1999. After several incidents during attempts to resupply
the Sierra Madre , in July 2024, the two sides agreed to
deescalate tensions around Second Thomas Shoal  and allow
for the vessel’s resupply . In 2025, tensions around
Scarborough Shoal resulted in a collision between two PRC
vessels  that were  harassing a Philippine Coast Guard ( PCG )
ship.  In 2013, t he Philippine government  sought arbitration under
the Unite d Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea
(UNCLOS) against aspects of China’s claims and behavior
in the South China Sea. In 2016, an UNCLOS tribunal
concluded, among other findings, that China’s maritime
claims based on “historical rights” have no basis in
international law , and that China had violated Philippine
rights in the South China Sea . China did not participate in
the proceedings and declared the verdict “null and void ,”
claiming the tribunal had no legal standing in the case.
Human Rights Concer ns
Human rights challenges  in the Philippines  include
extrajudicial killings  carried out by the military and police ,
lack of protections for press freedom and the safety of
journalists, a weak ju dicial  system, and corruption. The
State  Department , in a  2023 report updated pursuant to t he
Consolidated Appropriations Act, FY2023 ( P.L. 117 -328,
Section 7019(e)) , indicated  the AFP “has made progress on
human  rights,” although “some AFP personnel, particularly
those acting outside the chain of command, commit human
rights abuses and violations.”  Observers also have noted
ongoing restrictions and harassment of journalists .
As a consequence of former President Duterte’s war on
illegal drugs —which resulted in an estimated 6,000 -30,000
extrajudicial killings —Congress suspended
counternarcotics assistance to the Philippines in 2016,
except for demand reduction, maritime law enfo rcement, or
transnational interdiction . Some h uman rights groups allege
that extra judicial killings related to anti -drug operations
have continued  under Marcos, though at a lesser rate .
Separatist and Terrorist  Movements
The Philippines  government  has lo ng battled Muslim armed
separatist and terrorist groups on the southern island of
Mindanao  and in the Sulu archipelago . The U.S. military
has provided noncombat support for counterterrorism
efforts in the southern Philippines since 2002 , including
against  the Abu Sayyaf Group, which the United States
designated a foreign terrorist organization  (FTO)  in 1997 .
In 2018, the State Department added ISIS -Philippines
(renamed ISIS -East Asia  in 2020 ) to the FTO list . The AFP
has restricted terrorist groups’ ability to operate, though
various groups remain an ongoing, if diminished, threat.
Congressional Interests
Some Members of the 118th and 1 19th Congress es have
introduced  bills intended to support the  U.S.-Philippine
alliance, Philippine security, and bilateral ties, including the
United States -Philippines Partnership Act of 2024 (S.
4703 ), Filipino Veterans  Fairness Act of 202 5 (H.R. 6013 ),
and Filipino Veterans Family Reunification Act of 202 5
(H.R. 1053 ; S. 461 ). Congress approved  National Security
Investment Programs funding  and FMF in FY2026
Department of State appropriations legislation  (Division F
of P.L. 119 -75), and an increase for the Philippines within
the Defense Security Cooperation Agency’s International
Security Cooperation Programs in FY2026 Department of
Defense appropriations (Division A of P.L. 119 -75).
William Piekos , Analyst in Foreign Affairs
Ben Dolven , Specialist in Asian Affairs
The Philippines
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF10250  · VERSION 69 · UPDATED   IF10250
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.