https://crsreports.congress.gov
Updated March 5, 2026
U.S.-Indonesia  Relations
Overview
With  over 2 80 million  citizens , Indonesia is the most
populous  country in Southeast Asia , the world’s  most
populous Muslim -majority nat ion, and the world’s third -
largest democracy (after India and the United States). It has
the world’s 16th-largest economy —the 7th-largest when
ranke d by purchasing power parity. The country straddles
vital sea lanes and borders the Strait of Malacca, one of the
world’s busiest trade  routes, as well as the Indian Ocean
and the South China Sea.  Over the past 25 years , Indonesia
has become a robust democracy, holding f ive direct
presidential elections, each considered  by international
observers to have been  largely free and fair . In the  most
recent, held in February 2024 , Prabowo Subianto , a former
defense minister who served as commander of the
Indonesian military’s special forces in the 1990s,  was
elected to succeed President Joko Widodo . Prabowo took
office in October 2024 and is to s erve a five -year term.
The U.S.-Indonesia  relationship has broadened over the
past two decades , with closer military and counterterrorism
cooperation and a range of new educational, environmental,
and energy programs . Congress has played a key role in
guiding  the relationship, including by restricting
interactions with security services accused of rights abuses,
promoting cooperation on issues such as maritime security
and counterterrorism, and conducting oversight of
assistance programs and Indonesia’s Millennium Challenge
Compact , signed in 2023 . (Some of the aid is in flux given
the Trump Adminis tration’s  elimination of the U.S. Agency
for International Development (USAID) .)
Indonesia’s foreign policy is guided by its historical role as
a leader of the Non -Aligned Movement, and successive
Indonesian governments have resisted  aligning too closely
with the United States or other s, including the People ’s
Republic of China (PRC , or China ). Indonesia is an active
member in regional diplomatic institutions  including the G -
20 and Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) .
Some 87% of Indonesians are Muslim, with the vast
majority subscribing to moderate , syncretic  forms of Sunni
Islam . Religio us diversity is enshrined in the  constitution.
Some observers  express  concern about growing political
influence of  conservative religious groups . Non -Sunni
Muslims and other religious minorities have been targets of
violence, and some conservative groups  have organized
mass demonstrations against non -Muslim politicians.
Indonesia also has a history of violent extremis m: several
bombings in Jakarta  and Bali target ed Westerners  in the
early 2000s, an d smaller -scale attack s have occurred
periodically .
Political Background
On February 14, 2024, over 200 million Indonesians voted
in presidential, parliamentary, and local e lections —the
world’s largest one -day democratic exercise —and select ed Prabowo , the ex -son-in-law of the country’s former
authoritarian President Suharto,  as president . Prabowo  is a
former general who was removed from the military in 1998
for allegedly tort uring political activists and who was
implicated in 1999 violence in Timor -Leste  (East Timor) . A
scion of a wealthy Indonesian family  who spent much of his
youth overseas , Prabowo campaigned on promises to
continue Widodo’s  economic  policies,  including
prioritizing growth in underdeveloped regions and
promoting the mining and processing of critical minerals
important to clean -energy supply chains . He chose Jokowi’s
eldest son, Gibran Rakabuming Raka, as his vice president ,
and announced a cabinet that included members of nearly
every political party in Parliament.
As president, Prabowo  has implemented a range of
controversial initiatives , some of which  have spurred
criticism of his administration . His government’s proposal
to cut government subsidies fo r schools led to large street
protests in early  2025. Some foreign policy observers
criticized him for proposals that appeared to acknowledge
Chin a’s claims in the South China Sea for the first time.
Prabowo has also acted to  strengthen  relations with the
United States. Indonesia joined the Trump Administration’s
Board of Peace, and has offered to mediate in the
intensifying Middle East conflict.
Figure 1. Indonesia
U.S. Engagement with Indonesia
Previous U.S. Administrations have  engage d Indonesia
across a wide range of issues, encouraging Indonesians to
deepen their democratic institutions, promote religious
tolerance and the rule of law, develop a more liberal trade
U.S.-Indonesia Relations
https://crsreports.congress.gov  and investment climate, combat terrorism , and engage on
international issues such as maritime security  and climate
change . In 20 23, the United States and Indonesia upgraded
their bilateral “Strategic  Partnership ” to a “Comprehensive
Strategic Partnership,” continuing minister -level dialogue s
intended to address maritime cooperation, defense
cooperation, economic growth and development, energy
cooperation, cooperation on global and regional issues, and
people -to-people ties. Most U.S. assistance  has support ed
health, environmental, and educational initiatives , although
the status of individual programs is uncertain  given the
Trump Administration’s cuts to foreign assistance .
Indones ia is part of the Indo -Pacific  Maritime Security
Initiative , which aims to strengthen Naval and Coast Guard
capabilities  in the Indo -Pacific . In 2022, the two countries
finalized several agreements, including a $698 million
MCC Compact supporting climate -conscious infrastructure
developmen t.
Security Cooperation
U.S.-Indonesia security cooperation has deepened over the
past decade , with the two militaries conducting around 170
annual engagements , including on maritime security
cooperation and combat ting terrorism.  The largest U.S. -
Indonesia  military exercise is the annual Super Garuda
Shield, hosted by Indonesia, which included  over 6,000
troops from  13 nations in 202 5.
This represents a sharp change from the late 1990s and
early 2000s, when U.S. policies enacted  in response to
earlier human rights abuses by Indonesian forces severely
limited bilateral engagements . In 1999, Congress  suspended
all International Military Education and Training (IMET)
programs with Indonesia after its military , particularly the
Kopas sus special forces —headed at the time by Prabowo —
and militia proxies killed over 1,000 people in Timor -Leste
following Timor ’s vote to pursue inde pendence from
Indonesia. Programs were restarted on a limited basis  in
2002 and , from 2005 to 2010, the United  States largely
normalized mil itary relations .
Indonesia is increasingly involved in South China Sea
tensions. Indonesian authorities periodically confront or
warn off PRC fishing and law -enforcement vessels seen as
encroaching on Indonesian waters. PRC coast guard vessels
reportedly have harassed Indonesian energy exploration
vessels in the South China Sea more frequently and have
accompanied fleets of PRC fishing vessels into Indonesia’s
exclusive economic zone ( EEZ). In April 2025, Prabowo
broke from lo ng-standing Indonesian policy by proposing
joint development projects with the PRC in disputed areas.
Economic Issues
Over the past two decades, Indonesia’s economy has
frequently posted  growth of more  than 5%-6% annually,
buoyed in part by favorable demographics (66% of its
population is of working age). The country is a large
producer of natural gas and oil, as well as critical minerals
including nickel. It is a major supplier of natural resources
to Japan, Sout h Korea, and China, and is the world’s
leading exporter of palm oil.
Indonesia is the 24th-largest U.S. trading partner, ranking
below neighbors such as Singapore, Vietnam, Malaysia,
and Thailand. In 2025, bilateral goods trade totaled $45.8 billion and t he bilateral goods trade deficit was $23.7
billion. Indonesia has imposed some policies  criticized by
foreign investors, including  foreign ownership restrictions
and local content requirements in some industries. In
February 2026, the United States and Ind onesia signed an
Agreement on Reciprocal Trade, under which Indonesia
eliminated tariffs on nearly all imports from the United
States and agreed to remove some nontariff barriers, and the
United States cut tariff rates on Indonesian goods to 19%.
Militancy  and Terrorism
Indonesia has had a long -running issue of domestic
militancy,  including religious and separatist movements . In
2018,  Indonesia amended its 2003 Anti -Terrorism Law ,
lengthening periods for which suspects can be detained
without charge  and bro adening police rights to  prosecute
those who join or recruit for militant groups . U.S.-Indonesia
counterterrorism cooperation is close; the United States and
Australia helped to create Indonesia’s elite counterterrorism
unit, Densus -88, which has weakened militant groups such
as Jemaah Islamiyah (JI), an Al Qaeda affiliate  responsible
for several bombings in the 2000s . The threat of terrorism
in Indonesia remains present but many analysts argue that is
has been diminished in the past decade.
Human Rights Is sues
Most observers say Indonesia ’s human rights protections
have improved over the past 20 years , as the country’s
democratic system has developed and a relatively robust
civil society, including an active press,  has flourished .
Abuses still occur, including some by members of the
military . Alleged abuses are particularly  frequent  in areas
with simmering secess ionist movements  such as Papua.
Islamist organizations have harassed and attacked minority
religious groups, including Christians and other Is lamic
sects, such as the Shia and A hmadiyya . In 2016,  large
demonstrations by Islamist groups opposed to Jakarta’s
Christian governor raised  concern s for many  about religious
intolerance.  The State Departm ent’s 202 5 Trafficking in
Persons report  listed Ind onesia as a Tier 2 nation and
reported it “does not fully meet the minimum standards for
the elimination of trafficking but is makin g significant
efforts to do so. ”
Environmental Issues
The United States has conduct ed numerous environmental
and clean -energy programs in Indonesia, which is among
the world’s most bio diverse countries . In 2022, the United
States, Japan, and Indonesia announced a Just E nergy
Transition Partnership (JETP), aimed at accelerating private
investment in sustainable energy. In March 2025, however,
the Trump Administration withdrew U.S. participation in
the partnership. Indonesia  has made some progress on
issues such as defores tation, but it s record of environmental
protection is constrained  by weak rule of law and  poor land
management. Because of deforestation, Indonesia is  a major
emitter of greenhouse ga ses—the world’s third - or fourth -
largest when emissions from deforestatio n are considered .
Illegal logging remains rampant. In the 1960s, forests
covered 82% of Indonesia ; today, they cover 49%. Analysts
also cite overfishing as a concern.
Ben Dolven , Specialist in Asian Affairs
IF10247
U.S.-Indonesia Relations
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF10247  · VERSION 58 · UPDATED
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.