https://crsreports.congress.gov
Updated February 19, 2026
President Reagan’s Six Assurances to Taiwan
Introduction
Under  the U.S. “one-China ” policy, the U.S. government
has, since 1979,  maintained official relations with the
People’s Republic of China (PRC) and unofficial relations
with self-governed Taiwan , over which the PRC claims
sovereignty. Until 2020, U.S. Administrations described  the
U.S. one -China policy as being guided by three U.S.-PRC
joint communiqués (concluded in 1972 , 1978 , and 1982 )
and the Taiwan Relations Act ( TRA, P.L. 96 -8; 22 U.S.C.
§§3301 et seq. ). Since 2020 , U.S. Administrations have
stated  that the U.S. one -China policy  is guided by  the TRA
and the joint communiqués  (in that order), and also by “Six
Assurances ” communicated to Taiwan ’s president  in 19 82.
Historical Context
In the 1978  U.S.-PRC joint communiqué , the United Stat es
and the PRC  agreed to establish diplomatic relations on
January 1, 1979 . In an accompanying statement, th e U.S.
government said it would terminate diplomatic relations
with the Taiwan -based  Republic of China (ROC) on the
same date. With some Members portraying the moves  as a
betrayal of Taiwan, Congress passed  the TRA, enacted on
April 10, 1979. Among the  TRA’s provisions is that the
United States “will make available to Taiwan such defense
articles and defense services  in such quantity as may be
necessary”  for Taiwan’s self -defense.
By 1982, c ontinued U.S. arms sales to Taiwan  pursuant to
the TRA had bec ome a major irritant in the U.S.-PRC
relations hip. The Ronald Reagan Administration sought to
address the issue through negotiation of a third  U.S.-PRC
joint communiqué . In the August 17th Communiqué , named
for the day in 1982 on which it was released, the PRC
government affirmed “a fundamental policy of striving for a
peaceful reunification” with Taiwan. With such PRC
statements “in mind,” the United States stated  “that it does
not seek t o carry out a long -term policy of arms sales to
Taiwan, that its arms sales to Taiwan will not exceed, either
in qualitative or in quantitative terms, the level of those
supplied [since 1979], and that it intends gradually to
reduce its sale of arms to Tai wan, leading over a period of
time, to a final resolution. ”
Aware of mounting concern  in Taiwan over  the third
communiqué  negotiations , on July 10, 1982, then-Under
Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger instructed  James
Lilley, director of the unofficial U.S. representative  office
in Taiwan, the American Institute in Taiwan, to seek a
meeting with Taiwan ’s President , Chiang Ching -kuo. The
talking points Eagleburger sent Lilley  by cable  for the
meeting , authorized by President Reagan, included
statements detailing what the U.S. government  had not
agreed to in its negotiations  with the PRC . Those statements , delivered to President Chiang on July 14, 1982,
are now known as the U.S. “Six Assurances” to Taiwan.
Table 1. The Official Texts  of the Six Assurances
CRS has bolded the verb tenses
Eagleburger
cable: for
Taiwan’s Pres.
Chiang (7/10/82)  Shultz cable:
for Taiwan to
make public
(8/17/1982)  Holdridge
testimony before
Senate
(8/17/1982)
“We have not
agreed to set a
date certain for
ending arms sales
to Taiwan.”  The U.S. “ has
not agreed to
set a date for
ending arms
sales to
Taiwan.”  “[W]e did not
agree to set a date
certain for ending
arms sales to
Taiwan.”
“We have not
agreed to prior
consultation on
arms sales  [to
Taiwan] ” The U.S. “ has
not agreed to
consult with the
PRC on arms
sales to
Taiwan.”  “[The 1982 joint
communiqué]
should not be
read to imply that
we have agreed  to
engage in prior
consultations with
Beijing on arms sales
to Taiwan. ”
“We have not
agreed to any
mediation role for
the U.S.”  The U.S. “ will
not play any
mediation role
between Taipei
and Beijing.”  “[W]e see no
mediation role for
the United States.”
“We have not
agreed to revise
the Taiwan
Relations Act.”  The U.S. “ has
not agreed to
revise the
Taiwan
Relations Act.”  “We have no plans
to seek  any such
revisions [to the
TRA].”
“We have not
agreed to take any
position regarding
sovereignty over
Taiwan.”  The U.S. “ has
not altered its
position
regarding
sovereignty
over Taiwan.”  “[T]here has been
no change in our
longstanding
position on the i ssue
of sovereignty over
Taiwan.”
“The PRC has at
no time urged us
to put pressure on
Taiwan to
negotiate with the
PRC; however, we
can assure you
that we will
never  do so.”  The U.S. “ will
not exert
pressure on
Taiwan to enter
into
negotiations
with the PRC.”  “[N]or will we
attempt  to exer t
pressure on Taiwan
to enter into
negotiations with
the PRC .”
President Reagan’s Six Assurances to Taiwan
https://crsreports.congress.gov  Source:  “Declassified Cables ,” American Institute in Taiwan; U.S.
Congress, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, U.S. Policy Toward
China and Taiwan , 97th Cong., 2nd sess., August 17, 1982 .
After Taiwan ’s government  requested U.S. permission to
make the assurances  public , then-Secretary of State George
Shultz on August 17, 1982 , provided  Lilley with a
reworded version of the Six Assurances for that purpose . In
Washington, DC, then-Assistant Secretary of State for East
Asian and Pacific Affairs John H. Holdridge testified about
the communiqué before the Senate (on August 17 ) and the
House (on August 18 ). He wove  the Six Assurances into his
testimony  in both chambers , but did not label the  assurances
as such or disclose that President Reagan had offered them
to Taiwan’s president  the previous month . The three U.S.
government -released  versions of the Six Assurances are
presented in Table 1.
Differing  U.S. Government Texts
For nearly 38 years, the sole publicly  released U.S.
government text for  the Six Assurances was woven into
Holdridge’s 1982 testimony. The Eagleburger and Shultz
cables remained classified. In the absence of authoritative
stand -alone text, some sources asserted  that the  Six
Assurances  stated  that “t he United States would not
formally recognize Chine se sovereignty over Taiwan.”
House Concurrent Resolutions introduced in seven
Congresses cited that purported assurance: H.Con.Res. 69
(109th Congress), H.Con.Res. 73  (110th), H.Con.Res. 18
(111th), H.Con.Res. 122  (112th), H.Con.Res. 29  (113th),
H.Con.Res. 124  (115th), and H.Con.Res. 117  (116th).
The 114th Congress approved  resolutions ( H.Con.Res. 88
and S.Con.Res. 38 ) that quoted  from  the assurances woven
into Holdridge’s 1982 testimony. Both  urged  “the President
and Department of State to affirm the Six Assurances
publicly, proactively, and consistently as a cornerstone of
United States -Taiwan relations. ” The first Trump
Administration declassified  the Eagleburger and Shultz
cables  in 2020 , entering  into the public record two more
authoritative , but slightly different,  U.S. texts for the Six
Assurances.  Areas of difference are discussed below.
Taiwan’s s overeignty: The Eagleburger cable includes an
assur ance that in negotiations with the PRC, “We have not
agreed to take any position regarding sovereignty over
Taiwan.”  The Shultz  cable  is more ambiguous, st ating that
the U.S. side “has not altered its position regarding
sovereignty over Tai wan,” without stating the U.S. position ,
or lack thereof . The Shultz  cable includes the parenthetical
statement, “FYI: If asked why we have modified the
statement on sovereignty, you should explain that we have
consistently used this terminology in our public
statements.” The Holdridge testimony similarly states “no
change ” in the U.S. position, without stating that position .
Taking no position on Taiwan’s sovereignty has been long -
standing U.S. policy.
Verb tenses: The three U.S. government -released versions
of the Six Assurances vary in the verb tenses they use  for
indiv idual assurances. In t he Eagleburger cable , five of the
assurances are in past tense (“have not agreed ”) and one is
in future tense  (“will never” pressure Taiwan to negotiate with the PRC) . In the Shultz cable, one additional  assurance
is forward -looking ( “will not” mediate between Taipei and
Beijing). In the Holdridge testimony, three assurances are
forward -looking , the third being  that the United States has
“no plans” to seek revisions to the TRA.
The Six Assurances in Legislation
The varying verb tenses  of individual assurances contribute
to ambiguity about the degree to which they might  be read
as guiding  future policy. Without resolving that ambiguity,
since 2017, Congress has passed 11 laws with provisions
referencing  the Six Assurances , 9 of them  National Defense
Authorization Acts  (NDAAs). The other  laws are the Asia
Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018  (P.L. 115 -409) and the
Taiwan Assurance Act of 2020 ( P.L. 116 -260).
• The NDAAs for FY2021 , FY2022, and  FY2023  (P.L.
116-283, P.L. 117 -81, and P.L. 117 -263) state the sense
of Congress that the TRA and the Six Assurances “are
the foundation  for” U.S.-Taiwan relations. The NDAAs
for FY2019 and FY2020 ( P.L. 115 -232 and P.L. 116 -
92) state the sense of Congress that the TRA and the Six
Assurances “are both cornerstones of ” U.S.-Taiwan  ties.
• The NDAA for FY2024 ( P.L. 118 -31) states the sense of
Congress that “the United States’ one China policy, as
guided by” the TRA, the three U.S. -PRC C ommuniqués ,
and the Six Assurances, “is the foundation for” U.S. -
Taiwan relations.
• The NDAAs for FY2022 through FY202 6 (including
P.L. 118 -159 and P.L. 119 -60) state the sense of
Congress that the United States should strengthen the
U.S. partnership with Taiwan “consistent with ” the three
joint c ommuniqu és, the TRA, and the Six Assurances.
• The NDAA for FY20 18 (P.L. 115 -91) and P.L. 116 -260
state that it is U.S. policy to reinforce U.S. commitments
to Taiwan “under” the TRA and “consistent with” the
Six Assurances , with P.L. 116 -260 adding “in
accordance with the United States ‘One China’ policy.”
• P.L. 115 -409 states that it is U.S. policy “ to faithfully
enforce all existing United States Government
commitments to Taiwan, consis tent with  [the TRA] , the
3 joint communiques, and the Six Assurances .
In the 119th Congress, the Six Assurances to Taiwan Act
(H.R. 3452  and S. 3208 ) would state that it is U.S. policy to
reaffirm a version of the Six Assurances that combines the
three existing official versions into one  text. In that
combined text, four assurances are in past tense, one
include s both past and future tenses (the United States “did
not and will not agree to play any mediation role”), and one
is forward -looking . Addressing ambiguity  about the effect
of the Six Assurances , the act  would provide for
congressional review of specific proposed executive branch
actions  related to the Six Assurances : namely , actions “to
pause or terminate” arms sales to Taiwan, negotiate with
the PRC on Taiwan arms sales, mediate between Taiwan
and the PRC  over Taiwan’s sovereignty , change the lo ng-
standing U.S. position on sovereignty over Taiwan, or
pressure Taiwan to negotiate with the PRC.
President Reagan’s Six Assurances to Taiwan
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF11665  · VERSION 12 · UPDATED
Susan V. Lawrence , Specialist in Asian Affairs    IF11665
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.