https://crsreports.congress.gov
Updated March 4, 2026
U.S.-China Trade  Relations
The People’s Republic of China (PRC or China)  is the
second -largest global economy  and has been a top U.S.
trading partner  since  China joined the World Trade
Organization  (WTO) in 2001 . China is a major export
market for U.S. aircraft, agriculture, semiconductor
equipment /chips, gas turbines, and medical devices , and a
top source of  U.S. consumer goods and manufacturing
inputs . At the same time, challenges that U.S. firms face
from China  include a lack of  market access reciprocity,
trade barriers in key areas, a strong PRC state role in
commercial activity, and expanding industrial policies,
export controls, and economic security and data  rules .
Trade issues raised by U.S. officials and executives since
the 1990s have broaden ed into a U.S. government focus on
strategic comp etition  with the PRC . The executive branch
and Congress  have debated and adopted approaches , such
as tariffs  and restrictions on investment and market access ,
to counter PRC practices they say  distort markets, hinder
fair competition, and challenge  U.S. economic  leadership .
PRC Trade and Investment Terms
The PRC government controls or influences the purchase,
financ ing, and price  of top U.S. exports to China —aircraft,
semiconductors, medical equipment, agriculture, and
energy. It has sought to increase control of this trade and
reduce  its reliance on U.S. imports by diversifying trade
with other countries and advanci ng industrial policies that
exploit foreign commercial ties to develop PRC capabilities
in top import sectors. For example, i n aerospace, to meet
PRC terms, some U.S. firms have partnered with and
transferred advanced U.S. technology to PRC state firms to
jointly develop a PRC single -aisle aircraft (C -919). The
PRC government funds imports of U.S. semiconductor
manufacturing equipment to support the development of
China’s semiconductor industry.  PRC policies have
required firms to localize supply chains. PR C procurement
rules in pharmaceuticals and medical devices have set fixed
prices, which has increase d cost pressures and encourage d
firms in these sectors to produce in China.
The PRC has selectively opened its market and controlled
foreign firms’ participation in ways that have capped the
ability of such firms to compete. Foreign  firms may initially
fill PRC gaps with their products, services, and capabilities,
but PRC plans se t targets to displace such firms once China
gains competencies. The PRC’s economic system integrates
state and corporate interests, enabling the government to
use trade tools (e.g., antidumping, antitrust, export controls
market approvals, technical standa rds, and procurement) as
well as economic coercion and IP theft to advantage PRC
firms and economic  goals. In strategic sectors, PRC policies
have required foreign firms to set up joint ventures and
transfer technology. The PRC government has supported
some PRC firms in strategic areas , and fund ed overseas
investment (including acquisitions of foreign firms)  in
priority areas—such as agriculture, biotechnology, critical minerals, and semiconductor s—to gain capabilities , support
PRC manufacturing , and expand  in global  markets.
Trade and Investment Trends
Goods:  In 2025, China was the fourth -largest U.S. goods
trading partner (with total trade at $414.7 billion), the fourth -
largest U.S. export market ($106.3 billion), and the third -
largest source of U.S. imports ($308.4 billion).
• U.S. exports to China fell 25.8.%  over 2024 , with drop s
in autos, beef, chemical s, natural gas, and soybeans .
• U.S. imports from China fell 29.7% over 2024 , with drop s
in electronics, toys, plastic articles, and furniture.
(Overall U.S. imports increased 4.6% with a rise in
imports of such  items  from Mexico, Taiwan, and other s).
• The U.S. trade deficit with China fell 32% ($93 billion)
over 2024. China’s share of U.S. total imports  was 9%
(down from 13.4% in 2024). China’s share of U.S. total
exports was 4.9% (down from 6.9% in 2024). ( Figure 1 .)
Services:  In 2024, China accounted for 4.8% ($55 billion) of
U.S. exports and 2.6% ($21.9 billion) of U.S. imports. ( Figure
2.) Top U.S. exports to China are travel, technology and
intellectual property (IP) licensing, and transport.
Sales:  In 2023, sales in China by majority U.S. -owned affiliates
were $475.2 billion while U.S. sales by majority PRC -owned
affiliates (incl. Hong Kong at $45 billion) were $153.1 billion.
Investment:  In 2024, the U.S. foreign direct investment
(FDI) stock in China was $122.9 billion, and China’s FDI stock
in the United States was $34.0 billion. ( Figure 3 .) In 2024,
China accounted for 0.6% of total FDI stock in the United
States; China accounted for 1 .8% of U.S. FDI stock abroad.
Investments in China by U.S. private equity (PE) funds fell
from $140 billion in 2019 to under $1 billion in 2024.
According to the Department of the Treasury, as of
December  2025, U.S. investors held $359.1 billion in PRC
(mainland China and Hong Kong) securities  (a $79.2 billion
increase over June 2025)  while PRC holdings of U.S. securities
were $1.8 trillion. The PRC was the second -largest foreign
holder of U.S. Treasuries ($951.3 billion) after Japan ($1.2
trillion). (This  does not include PRC offshore holdings  and
proxy investments in U.S. Treasuries .)
U.S.-China Trade Relations
https://crsreports.congress.gov  Figure 1. U.S. -China Goods Trade (2001 -2025)
Source: CRS with data from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis.
Figure 2. U.S.-China Services Trade (20 01-2024)
Source : CRS with data from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis.
Figure 3. U.S.-China FDI Position (2013 -2024)
Source : CRS with data from the U.S. Bureau of Econ omic Analysis .
Key Issues Facing Congress
Since 2017, U.S. national security policy has defined the
PRC  as a strategic competit or and U.S. economic policies
have focused on reducing U.S.  dependence  on China . The
Trump Administration’s national security strategy , issued in
November 2025, does not name China as a competitor . It
discusses “win[ning] the economic future” in Asia by
rebalancing trade and countering “[p]redatory , state -
directed subsidies and  industrial strategies”  and “[u]nfair
tradin g practices ” while “maintaining  a genuinely  mutually
advantageous economic relations hip with Beijing. ”
Tariffs:  The executive branch’s use of tariffs as a tool to
advance trade, foreign policy, and economic goals has
prompted debates about congressional trade authorities and
oversight over U.S. trade policy and the costs and benefits
of using tariffs to address PRC practices of concern. Since
spring 2025, U.S. and PRC officials have engaged in talks
but have not reached  a deal  over tariffs related to the U.S. trade deficit and illicit fentanyl flows that President Trump
imposed on China in February and March of 2025 under the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA, 50
U.S.C. §§1701 et seq.) . On February 20, 2026, the Supreme
Court ruled that the  President cannot use IEEPA  to impose
tariffs. President Trump lifted such tariffs and imposed a
10% global tarif f for 150 days under Section 122 of the
Trade Act of 1974  (19 U.S.C. § 2132).  Tariffs that the
United States  has imposed on China since 2018  under other
authorities remain  in effect . In October 2025, the U.S.
Trade Representative ( USTR ) initiated a  Section 301
investigation of China’s implementation of the 2020 U.S.-
China Phase  One deal.  See CRS In Focus IF12990, U.S.-
China Tariff Actions Since 2018: An Overview ;  CRS In
Focus IF12125,  Section 301 and China: The U.S. -China
Phase One Trade Deal ; CRS In Focus IF12666, Section
301 and China: Shipping and Shipbuilding Issues ; and CRS
In Focus IF12958, Section 301 and China: Mature -Node
Semiconductors .
In February 2026, the International Trade Commission
(ITC) —acting under requirements in  P.L. 119 -74—opened
an investigation to examine the impact of a revocation of
China’s  permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) status on
the U.S. economy.  That same month , the I TC opened an
investigation into PRC state support and pricing practices in
biotechnology . H.R. 694 /S. 206  woul d revoke PNTR  tariff
treatment for the PRC . See  CRS In Focus IF12980,
Permanent Normal Trade Relations and U.S. -China Tariffs .
PRC Approaches . Since 2025, most PRC  retaliation to
U.S. tariff s has involved non-tariff actions  as the PRC ran
out of U.S. products to effectively tariff  given the trade
imbalance. The PRC has canceled ord ers, imposed market
restrictions, and enacted export controls on U.S. production
inputs . It expanded export control s to cover  more  trade and
require disclosure about the end-use of PRC input s, likely
increasing PRC visibility  and leverage over U.S. firms .
Negotiations:  Such PRC actions appear to have fostered  a
dynamic in talks in which U.S. officials have sought to
delay new PRC measures in exchange for concurrent delays
in U.S. actions , potentially distracting from U.S. efforts to
address systemic trade issues . The Trump Administration
also delayed some trade actions in fall 2025 as part of its
efforts to seek a trade deal and ahead of President Trump’s
planned visit to China  in late March  2026 . For example, t he
Department of Commerce delayed for one year a rule to
expand export controls to cover foreign affiliates of PRC
firms on the Bureau of Industry and Securi ty’s Entity List.
USTR also delayed imposing tariff s after finding PRC
semiconductor and shipping  policies actionable under
Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974. The PRC has offered
to purchase items it typically buys but withheld during talks
(e.g., aircr aft, beef, and soybeans).
The Administration’s decision to allow Nvidia to export its
H200 chips  to the PRC  (and set terms by which the U.S.
government is to collect 25% of the sale’s proceeds)
prompted debate in Congress in light of U.S. policies to
restrict semiconductor trade with China. Former U.S.
officials criticized  negotiating national security decisions in
exchange for trade concessions, saying that such actions
contradict past U.S. practice . See CRS Report R48642, U.S.
Export Controls and China: Advanced Semiconductors .
U.S.-China Trade Relations
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF11284  · VERSION 34 · UPDATED  Other Actions.  PRC i ndustrial policies are driving China’s
overcapacity, exports, and overseas investment in sectors
such as electric vehicles.  To address concerns about data
security  and the PRC state’s ties to PRC firms , in 2025 , the
Commerce Depa rtment issue d rules that restrict the use of
PRC connected technology in vehicles . Provisions in the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026
(P.L. 119 -60) restrict some U.S.  technology investment in
China, codify ing provisions in  President Biden ’s Executive
Order 14105 . President Trump  announced in 2025 that TikTok’s U.S. operations are to be run by a joint venture
majority -owned and -controlled by U.S. persons in which
TikTok’s parent, ByteDance , and its affiliates have up to a
20% stake. P.L. 118 -50 (Div. H and Div. I) restricts TikTok
and other PRC -tied digital platforms  in the U.S. market .
Karen M. Sutter , Specialist in Asian Trade and Finance
IF11284
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.