https://crsreports.congress.gov
Updated February 26, 2026
U.S.-China Competition in Emerging Technologies : LiDAR
The governments of the United States and the People’s
Republic of China (PRC or China) have both identified
strategic and emerging  technologies as  a key element  of
economic competitiveness and national defense.  Efforts to
lead in  such technologies are  a core aspect  of U.S.-China
strategic competition . Some  emerging technologies have
both civilian and m ilitary uses. Among these technologies
is Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR), a remote sensing
technology  used in automotive, agriculture, manufacturing,
weather,  and other  systems . The LiDAR market and its uses
are developing quickly. U.S. firms have led in LiDAR  to
date, but PRC firms  are advanc ing with the support of PRC
industrial policies  and access  to the U.S. market  and
technology . Some PRC firms have used questionable
practices to obtain  U.S. LiDAR  intellectual property (IP) .
LiDAR Technology
LiDAR is  a remote sensing method  that us es pulsed laser light to
measure the distance, speed, and/or altitude of physical objects to
map the surrounding environment. LiDAR allows for precise,
accurate, and rapid three -dimensional measurements of natural and
manmade environments with high resolut ion and long -range
detection. Unlike other sensing technologies (e.g., cameras), LiDAR’s
performance is not degraded in low -light conditions. There are
different types of LiDAR. Scanning LiDAR uses mechanical rotation to
spin the sensor and enables 360 -degree detection. U.S. firm Velodyne
(now merged with U.S. firm Ouster) developed the first scanning
LiDAR.  Microelectro -mechanical system (MEMS) LiDAR uses
miniature mobile mirrors to scan the environment. MEMS firms
include the U.S. firm Atomica. Optical ph ased array (OPA) LiDAR
does not require sensor movement and is thus more durable than
alternative LiDAR technologies. OPA firms include Quanergy. Flash
LiDAR works like a camera to map environments using a single laser
pulse. Flash LiDAR firms include Ledd arTech (Canada), Sense
Photonics (U nited States ), and Continental (Germany).
LiDAR Development and Applications
The United States first developed LiDAR as a military
technology in the 1960s for defense and aerospace uses.
Since then, the LiDAR market has expanded with the
development of systems capable of autonomous navigation,
for which LiDAR is a critical enabling technology.  Its use
has grown rapidly with demand for  electric vehicles (EV)
and related autonomous driving systems (Figure 1).
Commercial:  LiDAR has a range of applications in
mapping, satellites, and space . In the automotive sector,
LiDAR provide s sensin g capabilities for lane -keeping,
collision avoidance, advanced driver assistance, and
autonomous navigation.  In precision farming , it can
monitor crop conditions and soil health. In meteorology,
LiDAR  can improve weather forecasting. In manufacturing,
firms use the technology for robotics and to monitor safety
and productivity. “Smart cities” pair LiDAR with other
technologies to int egrate sensor networks in utilities,
transportation, and infrastructure. Chattanooga, Tennessee ,
for example,  plans to use LiDAR at 86 traffic intersections
in an effort to improve traffic management and safety.  Military : U.S. and PRC forces are among the  militaries
using LiDAR to support autonomous navigation capabilities
for uncrewed ground and aerial vehicles (UxV). LiDAR’s
precision and speed enable military -specific use. UxV
equipped with LiDAR could be used to conduct battle
damage assessment —an esti mate of the physical and
functional damage produced by an attack —removing the
need for military personnel to be physically present and
exposed on the battlefield. LiDAR -equipped UxV could be
used to survey structural damage after natural disasters and
to collect environmental data in remote or dangerous
locations. The U.S. military has explored using LiDAR to
identify and determine the depth of littoral sea mines and to
conduct atmospheric monitoring to predict laser weapons’
effectiveness. The U.S. Army sa ys potential uses include
“platform  target identificat ion, aim point selection, range
instrumentation support, weapon defenses , and mapping. ”
Figure 1. LiDAR Applications: Market Forecasts
Figure is interactive in the HTML version of this In Focus.
Source: CRS, adapted from Yole Group.
Notes:  ADAS is advanced driver assistance systems. Mfg. is
manufacturing. 2021 is actual market. 2027 is forecasted market.
China ’s Industrial Policies
China’s  LiDAR firms benefit from PRC  industrial pol icies
and related subsidies, market protections, preferences (e.g.,
procurement) , and other  practices  widely seen as unfair .
PRC policies  direct and finance the acquisition  of foreign
IP to develo p China’s LiDAR  and related  technologies
(e.g., semiconductors and optical sensors ). In 2020, China
prioritized  state support to develop sectors that  use LiDAR
(e.g.,  smart cities,  smart manufacturing, autonomous
driving ). Since 2022, the PRC  has encouraged  foreign
investment in its LiDAR sector on terms that develop  PRC
capabilities  and has placed LiDAR under export controls .
PRC policies  additionally  emphasize t echnical standards
setting to promote the use of China’s IP and help PRC firms
expand globally . PRC LiDAR firm Hesai has led  China’s
efforts to develop national and global LiDAR standards. In
the International Standards Organization, Hesai co -leads the
Automotive LiDAR Working Group  in developing a test
method for LiDAR performance and safety. Hesai co-
developed a U.S. standard for automotive LiDAR  in 2020
and global optical radi ation safety standards  in 2022 .
U.S.-China Competition in Emerging Technologies: LiDAR
https://crsreports.congress.gov  PRC policies incentivize aggressive  tactics  to obtain  foreign
IP, which may  distort the common use of trade tools and
involve questionable practices or illicit activity . In antitrust
reviews  of global deals , the PRC  often sets terms for asset
sales and technology transfer b efore approving deals.  In
2023 , the PRC  effectively blocked Intel’s bid for I srael
Tower Semiconductor, a LiDAR chip producer. PRC  firms
use China’s courts to set foreign IP licensing terms and
launch copycat cases to challenge U.S . court rulings. In
2019 , U.S. firm Velodyne  charged  the PRC’s Hesai and
RoboSense with illegally ac quiring IP during talks  to
produce  its products in China. In 2020, Veldoyne and Hesai
reached a global cross -licensing patent agreement . In 2023,
U.S. Ouster charged Hesai with IP infring ement .
China’s Use of the U.S. Market
PRC LiDAR firms are using U.S. capital markets to secure
financing, enter the U.S. market, form partnerships, and
acquire  U.S. technology . In 2022 , CITIC , a PRC state
inves tor, undertook a $1.4 billion reverse merger with U.S.
Quanergy Systems . Quanergy de clared bankruptcy 10
months later and sold its assets for $3.2 million to a limited
liability company (LLC) with possible Russia ties . In 2018,
China’s sovereign wealth fund  CIC bought U.S. Boyd
Corporation  with Goldman Sachs. In 2015 , the PRC state
semico nductor fund financed PRC NavTech’s acquisition
of Sweden’s Silex  and a MEMS foundry in China that uses
Silex ’s IP. In 2015, PRC state investors bought
OmniVision, a U.S. sensor desig ner (Table 1). PRC auto
firm Geely is invested in U.S. Luminar and co -develop ing
LiDAR technologies.  Hesai is partnered with Bosch, a
German automotive supplier and key LiDAR patent holder.
China also has  ties to  U.S. LiDAR research. For example,
Tsinghua -UC Berkel ey Shenzhen Institute’s phot onics lab
in China works on LiDAR . The Institute’s ties to University
of California may allow PRC access to the Sensor &
Actuator Center and Marvell Nanolab in Berkeley . LiDAR
USA is a Hesai distributor ; in 202 4 Hesai incorporated in
the U.S. market as  Ame rican LiDAR . Robosense  has a
North American headquarters in Michigan; in 2024, it
joined  MCity, a University of Michigan research center.
Table 1. Select ed PRC Purchases of LiDAR  Firms
Year  Target    Acquirer  Capability
2015 OmniVision   State investors  Sensor design
2015 Silek  NavTech , Sino IC
Fund Microscopic sensors
2018 Boyd Corp.  CIC Optical encoders
Faraday Future  Evergrande , CAS LiDAR IP
2022 Quanergy  CITIC Hardware , software
Source: Media and industry reports.
While U.S. and other non -PRC firms have led t he LiDAR
marke t with advanced research  capabilities and IP, PRC
firms are poised to quickly take a leadership position . PRC
industrial policies , acquisitions of foreign firms  and IP , and
corporate partn erships  have already rapidly enhanced PRC
firms ’ position  in the LiDAR  market , particularly  in
automotive LiDAR , as seen in patents granted to PRC firms
(Figure 2). Supported by state monies  and market
preferences , PRC firms are scaling up quickly in China .
Hesai has a $98.4 million credit line to expand production
in Shanghai and sa id in its 2023 filing with the S ecurities
and Exchange Commission that it would  use earnings  from
its U.S. initial public offering for acquisitions, research , and manufacturing. PRC firms  had 58% of the global
automotive LiDAR  market in 2020 , as measured by
shipment s. Many PRC firms operat e at a loss  and may be
selling below cost  to gain market share . Some analysts say
the LiDAR market is ripe for consolidation , which may
give China op enings  to acquire U.S. firms  and expand .
Figure 2.Major Automotive LiDAR Patent Holdings
Source: CRS, adapted from Henry Patent Law Firm .
Note s: *China acquired U.S. firms Faraday Future  and Quanergy (and
then sold Quanergy assets to an LLC in bankruptcy proceedings) . A
patent family is a patent collection covering similar technical content.
Military Ties and National Security Issues
In China, LiDAR systems are regulated as radio systems that
require military approval. Additionally, PRC policies seek to
develop technologies that are interoperable for civilian and
military use and may allow PRC state access. PRC LiDAR firms
support mili tary programs. NavTech provides navigation
technology for satellites (Beidou) and aviation defense (drones
and fighter jets). Hesai makes equipment used in  autonomous
warfighting vehicles  and is reportedly tied to the military’s China
Electronics Technolog y Group Corporation . Robosense has ties
to the Harbin Institute of Technology, a military university.
There are reports that the U.S. federal government, state
governments , and the U.S. military may be using or
considering  the use of  PRC LiDAR systems. If so, it could have
U.S. national security implications. China could use data
compiled by PRC LiDAR systems to acquire sensitive
information or exquisite mapping of U.S. infr astructure . China
could use this information to conduct military or industrial
espionage or gain operational advantages in a military conflict.
PRC firms also could introduce malware via a software update
and degrade the performance of systems using the te chnology.
In 202 5, the Department of Defense relisted Hesai on its list
of military companies in accordance with the William M. (Mac)
Thornberry  National Defense Authorization Act for F Y2021,
Section 1260H  (P.L. 116 -283). Additionally, i n December
2025, the Department of Commerce  issued rules that restrict
the use of PRC connected technology in U.S. vehicles.
Issues for Congre ss
To help ensure fair competition and to protect U.S. national
security, Congress could  consider the tactics China is using
to advance in LiDAR and whether to  strengthen  U.S. and
allied  procurement  rules  to review or restrict  federal, state,
and military acquisition of PRC LiDAR systems. Congress
could  also consider  policies related to  investment, export
controls, fair trade, antitrust, standards, capital markets, IP
licensing  and infringement , bankruptcy, and research .
Karen  M. Sutter , Specialist in Asian Trade and Finance
Kelley M. Sayler , Specialist in Advanced Technology and
Global Security
U.S.-China Competition in Emerging Technologies: LiDAR
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF12473  · VERSION 8 · UPDATED   IF12473
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.