https://crsreports.congress.gov
Updated March 3, 2026
The Army’s  XM-30 Mechanized Infantry Combat Vehicle
(Formerly the Optionally  Manned Fighting Vehicle [OMFV ])
Background
The Army’s Optionally  Manned Fighting Vehicle (OMFV)
is being designed to  replace the M -2 Bradley Infantry
Fighting Vehicle (IFV)  (see Figure 1 for a notional
example) . Optionally  manned  means the OMFV is to have
the capability  to conduct remotely  controlled operations
while a crew is not in the vehicle . The M -2 Bradley, which
has been in service since 1981, transport s infantry on the
battlefield , provide s fire support to dis mounted troops , and
can destroy enemy fighting vehicles. Updated numerous
times since its introduction, the M -2 Bradley is widely
considered to have reached the technological limits of its
capacity to accommodate new electronics, armor, and
defens ive syste ms. Two past efforts to replace the M -2
Bradley —the Future Combat System (FCS) Program and
the Ground Combat Vehicle (GCV) Program —were
cancelled for programmatic and cost -associated reasons.
Figure 1. Notional Example —OMFV
Sour ce: U.S. Naval Institute (USNI) , https://news.usni.org/ 2021/ 12/
30/report -to-congress -on-armys -optionally -manned -fightin g-vehicle -
to-congress -on-armys -optionally -manned -fighting -vehicle , accessed
April 18, 2022.
Note : This is a notional example ; the Army’s OMFV selected for
production may differ from this example.
OMFV Redesignated XM -30 Mechanized
Infantry Combat Vehicle
On June 26, 2023 , upon the completion of the initial digital
design phase , the Army redesignat ed the OMFV as the XM -
30 Mechanized Infantry Combat Vehicle.
Role of the XM-30
According to the 2024 Department of Defense (DOD) FY
2025 Program Acquisition Costs by Weapons Systems
The XM -30 Combat Vehicle (previously OMFV),
as part of an Armored Brigade Combat Team
(ABCT), will replace the Bradley Infantry Fighting
Vehicle to provide the capabi lities required to
defeat a future near -peer competitor ’s force. The
XM-30 is an optionally manned platform that maneuvers soldiers to a point of positional
advantage to engage in close combat and deliver
decisive lethality during the execution of combined
arms maneuver. It is designed to operate with and
may operate without a crew and soldiers under
armor based on the commande r’s decision. It
delivers decisive lethality during the execution of
combined arms maneuver while also controlling
maneuver robotics and semi -autonomous systems
XM-30 Acquisition Approach
The XM -30 is  currently  a Middle Tier Acquisition Rapid
Prototyping (MTA -RP) program. The XM -30 is to be  the
Army’s first ground combat vehicle designed using state-
of-the-art digital engineering tools and techniques.  It is to
be designed from the onset  as a Modular Open Systems
Architected (MOSA) platform based on an Army -defined
and -owned open standard . As technology and software
evolve , MOSA could potentially facilitate rapid XM-30
modernization at a reduced cost. The o pen architecture of
the XM-30 could also offer more oppor tunities for industry
competition and i nnovations as the XM-30 is upgraded.
The Army is conducting a five -phase acquisition approach
to design, prototype, test, and produce the XM-30:
• Phase 1 consists  of Market Research and
Requirement Development .
• Phase 2, the Concept Design Phase , include s modeling,
simulation, and analysis (MS&A) to inform
requirements and support  initial design activities .
• Phase 3, the Detailed Design  Phase , includes  detailed
design activities to mature XM-30 designs  and
concludes with a Critical Design Review (CDR).  A
CDR is a  technical review  to ensure  the initial product
baseline is established . Successful completion of CDR
provides the technical basis for proceeding into
fabrica tion, integration, development , test , and
evaluation of a system.
• Phase 4,  the Prototype Build and Test Phase , verifies
prototype performance against performance
specification s. Late in this phase, a Limited User Test
(LUT) is to be conducted.
• Phase 5, the  Production and Fielding  Phase , is to
result in a single  Low-Rate Initial Production ( LRIP )
contract for production, testing , and initial fielding.
Program Activities
Phase 2 Contracts Awarded
The Army announced  the award of five firm -fixed price
contracts for XM-30 Phase 2 Concept Design Phase using
full and open competitive procedures  on July 23, 2021 . The
The Army’s XM -30 Mechanized Infantry Combat Vehicle (Formerly the Optionally Manned Fighting Vehicle [OMFV])
https://crsreports.congress.gov  contracts were awarded to  Point Blank Enterprises, Inc.
(Mia mi Lakes, FL); Oshkosh Defense, LLC (Oshkosh, WI);
BAE Systems Land and Armaments L.P. (Sterling Heights,
MI); General Dynamics Land Systems, Inc. (Sterling
Heights, MI); and American Rheinmetall Vehicles, LLC
(Sterling Heights, MI). The total award value for all five
contracts was approximately $299.4 million.  During this
phase , competing firms  were  asked to develop digital
designs . On November 1, 2022, it was reported that all five
firms had submitted their XM-30 digital designs prior to the
November 1 deadline. All five proposals reportedly were
hybrid electric vehicles .
Phase 3 and 4 Contracts Awarded
On June 26, 2023, the Army announced
[t]he award of two firm -fixed price contracts for the
Optionally Manned Fighting Vehicle  [XM -30]
Phase 3 and 4 Deta iled Design and Prototype Build
and Testing phases, using full and open competitive
procedures. The contracts were awarded to General
Dynamics Land Systems Inc. (Sterling Heights, M I)
and American Rheinmetall Vehicles LLC (Sterling
Heights, M I). The total award value for both
contracts is approximately $1.6 billion.
FY2025 Program Update
According to the Department of Defense (DOD) FY 2025
Program Acquis ition Costs by Weapons Systems
The Army anticipates transitioning from an MTA -
RP to a Major Capability Acquisition Pathway at
Milestone B in the 2nd quarter of Fiscal Year (FY)
2025 and plans to enter Low -Rate Initial Production
(LRIP) in the 1st quarter F Y 2028 with a Full Rate
Production (FRP) decision slated for FY 2030.
FY2026 Program Update
According to the Department of Defense (DOD) FY 2026
Program Acquisition Costs by Weapons Systems
The XM30 is an MTA -RP program. Milestone B
was approved in June 2025, and Milestone C is
targeted for first quarter FY 2028. The Army
Transformation Initiative will accelerate this
program. [In FY2026 the Army] continues to fund
prototype vehicle designs from Preliminary Design
Review (PDR) through CDR in preparation for both
physical prototype builds and tests.
XM-30 Preliminary Design Review  (PDR)
Reportedly , General Dynamics Land Systems  and
Americ an Rheinmetall Vehicles  completed their PDR  in
August 2024 and , after a critical design review,
development of physical prototypes was planned to begin.
According to Defense News
Prototypes will take 18 to 20 months to construct
after the critical design reviews wrap up. Once
prototypes are delivered, the Army will move into a
test and evaluation phase with both competitors
before deciding on a winner in FY2027. The first
vehicles are expected to be fielded in  FY2029 . Milestone B Decision
In June 2025, the U.S. Army reportedly  approved Milestone
B for the XM -30 program, advancing it into the engineering
manufacturing development phase after both competitors
completed critical design reviews. However, in February
2026, Army leadership reportedly  opted not to sign
documen tation finalizing the Milestone B decision to avoid
locking the service into a specific design or a slow
acquisition path, effectively pausing formal  program
transition and prompting a reevaluation of the program’s
approach .
XM-30 Milestone B Pause and a New Request for
Information (RFI)
According to  the February 2026 report , the Chief of Staff of
the Army, General Randy George, and the Secretary of the
Army , Dan Driscoll, decided not to sign off on the
Milestone B decision “ to leave the door open to a major
reworking of the XM -30 Mechanized Infantry Combat
Vehicle program. ” Reportedly , regarding the pause, an
Army spokesman stated
We are actively assessing multiple, competing
designs for the XM -30 to foster a truly competitive
environment  We continue to look for partners who
can deliver cutting -edge solutions now, not decades
from now.  This is a deliberate and necessary step to
ensure we assess and select the best approach to
deliver a world class vehicle today and into the
future.
A February 18, 2026 , Request for Information (RFI) for
Ground Combat Vehicle Production , while not specifically
mentioning replacing the XM -30 or Bradley, seeks
“information from industry partners to explore innovative
solutions for the rapid design, production, and delivery of
ground combat vehicles. ” It was reportedly  sugges ted such
an action by Army leadership could serve to put pressure on
the current XM -30 developers to accelerate the program
and also open the program to existing fighting vehicle
designs .
Potential Oversight Issue for Congress
The Viability  of the  XM-30 Program
Should the Army decide to end the current XM -30 effort at
Milestone B, a ny new  effort would reportedly  be the
seventh attempt to replace the Bradley since the 1980s. This
arguably raises several  question s: After about four decades
of attempts , can the Army decide upon and field a suitable
Bradley IFV replacement? Furthermore, what are the
ramifications for the armor ed fighting vehicle defense
industrial base going forward if successive Bradley
replacement efforts have ended at the prototype phase or
earlier? Could this discourage vendors from current and
future U.S. Army IFV  development altogether? Given the
Army’s p ast attempts to replace the Bradley and the
apparent uncertainty of the program’s way forward,
Congress might decide to examine the viability of the XM -
30 program.
Andrew Feickert , Specialist in Military Ground Forces
Ebrima M'Bai , U.S. Army Fellow
IF12094
The Army’s XM -30 Mechanized Infantry Combat Vehicle (Formerly the Optionally Manned Fighting Vehicle [OMFV])
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF12094  · VERSION 19 · UPDATED
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.