https://crsreports.congress.gov
Updated February 20, 2026
Yemen : Conflict, Red Sea Security , and U.S. Policy
Yemen is a conflict -afflicted nation along the strategic Bab
al Mandab Strait, one of the world’s most active shipping
lanes. Since 2015, a civil war h as pitted the Iran -backed
Houthi movement against Yemen’s internationally
recognized government, the government’s foreign backers,
and other anti -Houthi forces. The Houthis control most of
northwestern Yemen, including the capital , Sana’a (Figure
1). Foreign intervention complicates the conflict, which has
contributed to a long -standing and ongoing humanitarian
crisis . An uneasy truce has frozen conflict lines since 2022.
The Iran -backed Houthis launched numerous attacks on
international shipping from October 2023 (after Hamas -led
attacks on Israel sparked the  war in Gaza) to December
2024, before pausing these attacks in early 2025.  From
March to May 2025, U.S. forces expanded strikes against
the Houthis seeking to compel a  lasting  end to Houthi
mariti me attacks. The U.S. campaign ended under an
agreement brokered by neighboring Oman in which the
Houthis agreed to cease targeting U.S. vessels and the
United States agreed to halt strikes on the Houthis. The
Houthis renewed  attacks on some non -U.S. ships in July
2025 and continue d to launch long-range strikes against
targets in Israel , ostensibly to compel Israel to end its war
with Hamas. The Houthis suspended their attacks after the
October 2025 Israel -Hamas ceasefire, but have signaled
their willingness  to relaunch attacks if war resumes in Gaza.
In December 2025 and January 2026, Saudi Arabia
intervened militarily against the Yemeni separatist Southern
Transitional Council (STC ), reversing the STC’s seizure of
Yemen’s eastern governorates and Aden, the seat of the
internationally recognized government. Saudi Arabia
accused the United Arab Emirates of providing military
support to the STC, and remaining UAE forces left Yemen.
Yemen’s underlying conflict is unresolved . The Houthis
pose enduring threats to shipping and to U.S. partners.
Background and Key Stakeholders
Long -running Yemeni disputes over governance and energy
resources have deepened since 2015 amid foreign influence
and intervention. The Republic of Yemen was formed by a
1990 merger  of the Sana’a -led Yemen Arab Republic (a
former Ottoman province, then Zaydi Shia -ruled kingdom ,
“North Yemen” ) and the Aden -led People’s Democratic
Republic of Yemen (a former British colony and  Marxist
regime , “South Yemen” ). North -south tensions and conflict
have recurred since the 1960s, and the STC leveraged some
southerners’ continuing demands for independence. Tribal
networks and local actors are the most influential parties in
many areas . The government and the Houthis manage
complex ties with diverse groups to maintain power .
In 2012, Arab Spring -era protests and unrest prompted  the
president of the Republic of Yemen Government
(ROYG)  to resign. A UN-mediated transition and national
dialogue sought to broker new governing arrangements . The Houthi movement (alt. Ansar Allah  or Partisans of
God), a north Yemen -based Zaydi Shia network , opposed
UN-backed  outcomes  and resumed an insurgency . In 2014,
the Houthis seized the capital, Sana’a , and later advanced
on Aden . ROYG leaders fled and sought international
intervention.
In March 2015, a coalition led by Saudi Arabia  began a
military campaign against the Houthis . Houthi attacks
across Yemen’s borders grew in complexity and scope with
deepening support over time from Iran . The United States
provided logistical, intelligence, and advisory support to the
coalition, but ended aerial refueling in 2018 and later
curtailed some arms sales to Saudi Arabia in response to
civilian casualties and congressional action .
Power -sharing agreement s in 2020 and 2022  brought anti-
Houthi forces together under a coalition . An STC offensive
on ROYG -aligned forc es in December 2025 and Saudi
military intervention resulted in the STC ’s dissolution  and
changes in the makeup of the ROYG ’s eight -person
Presidential Leadership Council (PLC) . The ROYG  also
expanded and reshuffled its cabinet . Saudi Arabia is now
the ROYG ’s principal sponsor  and security partner as the
ROYG and former STC members consider next steps .
Conflict Status and U.S. Diplomacy
Since 2015, conflict has caused widespread humanitarian
suffering and significant infrastructure damage in Yemen,
long the Arab world’s poorest country. Foreign observers
have denounced human rights violations attributed to all
parties. Since 2022, violence has not returned to pre-truce
levels , but intermittent cross -line fighting occurs. The
STC’s dissolution is prompting a reorganization of anti -
Houthi forces.  The Houthi s continue to consolidate  control
in the north having demonstrated their capacity to threaten
international shipping, Israel, and other regional states .
The Trump Administration has taken military action  against
the Houthis and redesignated the group as a Foreign
Terrorist Organization (FTO) in March 2025 . The Trump
Administration has supported the UN Security Council ’s
decision to end the UN Mission to Support the Hudaydah
Agreement  (UNMHA), a December 2018 ceasefire
agreement that halted fighting over Yemen’s Houthi -held
Red Sea ports . In January 2026, Deputy U.S.
Representative to the UN Tammy Bruce said “the Security
Council should concentrate its efforts on depriving the
Houthis of resources to conduct their terrorist activities. ”
Since February 2015, the U.S. Ambassador to Yemen and a
Yemen Affairs Unit (YAU) have been based at the U.S.
Embassy in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.  From October 2025  to
January 2026 , U.S. Ambassador to Yemen Steven Fagin
also serve d as head of the Gaza -focused Civil -Military
Coordination Center . UN Special Envoy for Yemen Hans
Grundberg  engages Yemeni and regional actors in efforts
“aimed at advancing dialogue and de -escalation .”
Yemen: Conflict, Red Sea Security, and U.S. Policy
https://crsreports.congress.gov  Figure 1. Yemen: Approximate Areas of Influence  and Operation
As of February 2026
Source:  CRS, using ACAPS , Humanitarian Access Overview, December 2025 , ESRI, UN Panel of Experts, and U.S. State Department data .
Humanitarian Situation
The UN reports that  19.5 million Yemenis (more than half
the population) need humanitarian assistance and
protection. In December 2025, UN agencies reported  that a
“severe gap” in humanitarian funding during the year
forced providers “to scale back critical services despite
escalating need s.” T he annual  UN humanitarian funding
appeal  for Yemen sought  $2.47 billion in 2025 to provide
life-saving assistance to 10.5 million people an d was  28.3%
funded . Limits on movement and bureaucracy constrain
humanitarian access and affect aid delivery, largely in
Houthi -controlled areas, where the Houthis have detained
UN and aid w orkers. The World Food Programme (WFP)
reportedly  is ending its operations in Houthi -controlled
northern Yemen  given security risks and funding cuts .
Counterterrorism
Insecurity in Yemen creates opportunities for an estimate d
2-3,000 Yemen -based Al Qaeda members , who UN
monitors report  maintain a “covert pragmatic relationship”
with the Houthis and an allia nce with the Somalia -based Al
Shabaab . According to UN monitors, the Houthis also have
“limited collaboration” with Al Shabaab.  Iran’s Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps -Qods Force and Lebanon’s
Hezbollah also have operated in Yemen.
Houthi Attacks and U.S. Responses
Following the October 7, 2023, Hamas -led attacks on
Israel , and Israel’s military operations in Gaza, the Houthis
began targeting Israel i territory as well as commercial ships
transiting the Bab al Mandab Strait . Through 2024, U.S.
forces in tercepted Houthi -launched projectiles, prevented
some attempted Houthi seizures of vessels, led coalition
patrol operations, and struck Houthi targets in Yemen. On
March 15, 2025, U.S. forces began  a military campaign the
Administration intended to compel the Houthis to end their
attacks and eliminate their capability to threaten maritime transit. The Houthis resist ed, attacked  U.S. Navy ships, and
shot down U.S. unmanned aircraft . A U.S.-Houthi truce has
held since May 2025 , but Houthi attacks  on Israel were not
suspended until October 2025 . In June, U.S. CENTCOM
stated  that “ only through a whole of government approach,
of which military operations are a key component, will a
sustained return of freedom of navigation be guaranteed.”
UN Security Council Resolution 2722  (2024) demands the
Houthis cease attacks , and , in January  2026, the Council
extend ed related reporting provisions until J uly 2026 .
Foreign support and accumulated expertise may allow the
Houthis to pose enduring maritime security risks. U.S.
sanctions  target  the group’s far-reaching  networks . U.S.
officials have described  Iran’s efforts to suppl y the Houthis
with weaponry, targeting  information , and military advice .
In July, U.S. officials announced that Yemeni forces had
seized  750 tons of munitions and hardware intended for
Houthi use.
Yemen and the 11 9th Congress
The 119th Congress may consider whether or how to
respond to developmen ts in Yemen, including intra -Yemen
conflict or attacks by Houthi forces outside of Yemen.
Members also may conduct oversight of related military or
diplomatic initiatives by the Trump Administration.  The
2026 National Defense Authorization Act (P.L. 119 -60)
authorizes the U.S. military to treat as U.S. stocks any
weapon or materiel intended for the Houthis  obtained by
the United States in transit or otherwise  and to use them for
drawdown purposes, including transfer . In 2025 , some
Members question ed President Trump ’s assertions of
authority  to direct military operations in Yemen .
Christopher M. Blanchard , Specialist in Middle Eastern
Affairs
IF12581
Yemen: Conflict, Red Sea Security, and U.S. Policy
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF12581  · VERSION 18 · UPDATED
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.