https://crsreports.congress.gov
Updated February 26, 2026
U.S.-Russian Nuclear Arms Control : Overview  and Potential
Considerations for Congress
The United States has  periodically  sought to advance its
national security interests through the negotiation and
conclusion of  nuclear  arms control  agreements  with its
adversaries.  Throughout  2025 and in 2 026, President
Donald Trump has discuss ed potential talks  with Russia and
China concerning nuclear weapons reductions.
Congress  plays  an important role in arms control, which  is
implemented pursuant to  treaties or agreements  negotiated
by the executive branch.  The Senate considers  providing
advice and consent to the ratification of treaties  and the
confirmation of executive branch nominees for positions  in
the Department of State  (DOS) , Department of Defense
(DOD) , Department of Energy, and the intelligence
community . Congress also authorizes and appropriates
funds  for, as well as  provides oversight of , those  U.S.
government agencies  that negotia te, implement, monitor ,
and verify compliance  with treaties and agreements .
Background
During the Cold War and in its aftermath, the United States
and the Soviet Union  (which Russia and other Soviet
republics dissolved in 1991)  sought to minimize the costs
and risks of nuclear competition  and improve  so-called
strategic stability . Following the 196 2 Cuban Missile Crisis ,
the United States and the Soviet Union created a “ hotline ”
to communicate in a nuclear crisis , which, along with  some
later risk reduction agreements , sought  to reduce dangers  of
an accidental or inadvertent nuclear war .
After the Soviet Union achieved  rough parity in strategic
nuclear forces with the United States,  and began to deploy
ballistic  missile defenses , the two countries  engaged in
Strategic Arms Limitations Talks  (SALT). The 1972 SALT
I Treaty and A nti-Ballistic Missile  (ABM) Treaty
negotiated by the Johnson  and Nixon  Administration s and
the 1979 SALT II  Treaty negotiated by the Nixon , Ford ,
and Carter  Administration s resulted in some limits on
strategic nuclear forces  and ballistic missi le defenses .
Subsequently, t he Reagan Administration concluded  the
1987 Intermediate -Range Nuclear Forces  (INF) Treaty ,
which  verifiably  destroyed all ground -launched ballistic and
cruise missiles of intermediate ranges . The Reagan  and
George H.  W. Bush  Administrations negotiated the  1991
Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty  (START I), which
resulted in  the “largest arms control reductions in history,”
according  to DO D. In 2002, the George W. Bush
Administration concluded  the Moscow Tr eaty reducing
U.S. and Russian strategic nuclear forces.
The executive branch has also at times  withdrawn  from
arms control, including  in 2002 from  the ABM Treaty  and in 2019 from the INF Treaty , when it deemed these accords
to no longer be in the U.S. national security interest.
New START
Until February 5, 2026, t he United States and Russia were
parties to t he 2010 New START Treaty , under which  the
two countries verifiably r educed their strategic nuclear
forces to 1,550 deployed warheads on 700 deployed
strategic delivery vehicles (intercontinental ballistic
missiles  (ICBMs ); submarine -launched ballistic missiles ;
and strategic bombers).  Between 2023 and 2026, Russia did
not participate in parts of the treaty’s verification regime .
This followed Russian President  Vladimir  Putin ’s
announcement  that Russia w ould “suspend participation ” in
New START , citing  concerns about UK and French  nuclear
weapons  and also Western efforts to achieve Russia’s
“strategic defeat” in the war in Ukraine. Russia n officials
stated  that Russia  would observe treaty central limits, but
would suspend  data exchanges  and consultations . The DOS
called  Russia’s  suspension “legally invalid” and announced
countermeasures . The DOS  had also expressed  concerns
about Russia’s compliance with New START in
congression ally mandated  public  annual reports .
In September 2025, President Putin  stated  that Russia could
continue to abide by New STAR T limits after the treaty’s
expiration  date if the United States did so. On February 5,
2026, the day of New START ’s expiration, President
Trump posted  on social media that “rather than extend”
New START, the United States “should ” negotiate a “new,
improved, and modernized Treaty.” On February 11,
Russian officials stated  that Russia would abide by New
START central limits as long as the United States did so.
New START  Follow -on Negotiations
In 2020, during the first Trump Administration, U.S. and
Russian officials held several meetings  to discuss arms
control  issues , including potential limits o n Russian
nonstrategic nuclear weapons , which are nuclear weapons
deployed on delivery vehicles with ranges shorter than
strategic nuclear weapons.  The United States also sought to
include China , which declined to participate , in talks .
In 2021, the Biden Administration engaged  with Russia  in a
Strategic St ability Dialogue  (SSD)  to “lay the groundwork
for future arms control and risk reduction measures.” The
United States advocat ed including  all Russian nuclear
weapons  in a notional agreement . Russia, in turn, proposed
discus sing nuclear and nonnuclear weapons, missile
defense, outer spa ce, and other issues , which , Russia
argued, affected  strategic stability.  The SSD process ended
in 2022, following Russia’s full -scale invasion of Ukraine.
U.S.-Russian Nuclear Arms Control: Overview and Potential Considerations for Congress
https://crsreports.congress.gov  In February 2026, citing  President Trump’s post arguing for
a new nuclear  weapons treaty, Administration officials
called  for “multilateral nuclear arms control and strategic
stability talks” involving  Russia and China.
Potential Consideratio ns for Congress
Members of Congress have deliberated , including in 2025
and 2026  committee hearings,  about the extent to which
current and future U.S.-Russian nuclear arms control  is in
the U.S. national security interest . Some  Members  have
argued  that there is “continued value” in such arms control,
and “ urged ” talks f or a new treaty  and mutual observance  of
New START  limits . Other  Members  have expressed
concerns about Russia’ s noncompliance with arms control
commitments , urged DOD to prepare for a future where
Russian nuclear weapons are not bound by New START,
and stressed  the importance of U.S. nuclear modernization .
Arms control and U.S. nuclear modernization
Congress may consider  how arms control, and the timelines
for any potential limits on U.S. capabilities, interact with
the progress of U.S. nuclear modernization. The United
States is modernizing  its nuclear forces , including procuring
a new ICBM , a new strategic bomber , and  a new ballistic
missile submarine ; updat ing its  nuclear command, control,
and communications  (NC3) system and regional deterrence
capabilities ; and  modernizing its  nuclear weapons complex .
The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated  in 202 5
that the operation  and modernization of U.S. nuclear forces
could total over $ 95 billion a year. DOD has continued to
prioritize  modernization, but President Trump has also
stated that “tremendous amounts of money are being spent”
on nuclear weapons and expressed hope  that the United
States , Russia, and China could decrease defense spending.
Russia’s nuclear capabilities of concern
Congress may consider whether Russian nuclear weapons
present a threat to the United States that could be managed
through ar ms control. Some Russian officials have
suggested  that new U.S. ballistic missile defense
developments may affect  Russia’s willingness to maintain
treaty  limits . According to open source s, Russia,  like the
United States , has reserve nu clear warheads  that it could
upload on strategic delivery vehicles .
Russia has  nuclear weapons  that did not fall under New
START . The Obama, Trump, and Biden Administrations
unsuccessfully sought  to negotiate  verifiable limits o n
nonstrategic nuclear weapons  (NSNW) , as per guidance in
the Senate’s  2010  resolution  of New START ratification .
U.S. o fficials have considered  the po ssibility of an
agreement that would cover all types of nuclear warheads,
including those for NSNW , though it would  likely  require
intrusive  verification measures . In 202 3, President Putin
stated that Russia ha d deployed NSNW  to Belarus.
Russia also has  novel  nuclear and nuclear -capable delivery
vehicles  that Pres ident Putin has said are intended  to
counter U.S. ballistic missile defense s. Russia included
some of these —a new heavy ICBM  and an ICBM -mounted
hypersonic glide vehicle —in New START.  Other s, such as
a nuclear-powered cruise missile and a n autonomous underwater system , remain ed outside of an arms control
framework . According to the U.S. intelligence community’s
unclassified 2025 Annual Threat Assessment , Russia was
also “developing a new satellite meant to carry a nuclear
weapon .”
Arms control in a two -nuclear -peer environment
Congress may consider how U.S.-Russian nuclear arms
control fits into in an environment  where China’s nuclear
arsenal is expanding , with potential implications for U.S.
deterrence requirements . According to a 2024 unclassified
DOD assessment , China may have over 1,000 “operational
nuclear warheads” by 2030. The Biden Administ ration’s
2024 nuclear employment strategy argued  that “the types of
limits that the United States will c onsider,” including in
future negotiations with Russia, “will be influenced by the
actions and trajectories of other nuclear -armed actors.”
The 2023 report of the Congressional Commission on the
Strategic Posture  of the United States , which warned of an
emergence of a “two -nuclear -peer” threat , argued  that the
United States need ed to start with  a strategy and  appropriate
nuclear force requirements prior to “developing U.S.
nuclear arms control limits for the 2027 -2035 timeframe.”
The Commission  also stressed  the need for research into
verification technologies  to support future arms control
efforts and highlighted  the potential importance of formal
and informal risk reduction measures  with both Russia and
China  “to increase predictability and reduce uncertainty .”
In the ab sence of arms control, s uch measures, according to
some experts , could range from data exchanges to
operational constraints, such as  political  commitments to
avoid interfering  with NC3  or with monitoring by  national
technical means . Russia’s willingness to discuss risk
reduction  is uncertain .
Role of Congress in arms control and risk reduction
Congress may consider  what its role may be in future
efforts  to manage the risks of nuclear competition . In past
Congresses , Members have debated, assessed, and
conducted oversight of U.S.-Russian arms control and risk
reduction measures and their contributions to U.S. national
security. Some Members have proposed  risk reduction
measures for potential executive branch enactment . Other s
have served  as U.S. observers in arms control negotiations.
The Senat e’s 2010 resolution of advice and consent to
ratification of the New START Treaty states  that “further
arms reduction agreements … may be made only pursuant
to the treaty -making power of the President as set forth in
Article II, section 2, clause 2 of the Constitution of  the
United States. ” However, the executive branch may  also
pursue nonbinding or political commitments  that may not
require Senate action.
U.S.-Russian Nuclear Arms Control: Overview and Potential Considerations for Congress
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF12964  · VERSION 8 · UPDATED  CRS Products
CRS In Focus IF12672, Russia’s Nuclear Weapons
CRS Insight IN12640, Extension of New START Central Limits:
Overview of the Expert Debate
CRS Insight IN12568, Golden Dome: Potential Strategic Stability
Considerations for Congress
CRS Report RL33865, Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A
Catalog of Treaties and A greements
Anya L. Fink , Analyst in U.S. Defense Policy
IF12964
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.