https://crsreports.congress.gov
Updated February 20, 2026
Sole-Source Contracts  for Small Businesses
Introduction
Provisions of the Small Business Act authorize (and, in
some cases, require ) federal agencies to provide small
businesses a preference when making a contract award.
Preferences for small business contractors may take the
form of contract set -asides , which may limit the
competition for an award to small firms , or sole -source
awards , which are contracts made to a firm without
competition from other firms . Agencies may make sole -
source awards to small businesses  under some
circumstances , subject to limits on the value of such
awards .
This In Focus provides an overview of sole-source contracts
for small businesses . For more information about contract
set-asides for small businesses, see  CRS In Focus IF12852,
Federal Contract Set -Asides for Small Businesses . For
detailed information o n small business contracting policies
and contracting programs for certain types of small business
owners , see CRS Report R45576, An Overview of Small
Business Contracting .
Origin  of Small Business Contr acting
Preferences
Many existing s mall business contracting policies and
programs re flect 1953 legislation, seeking, in part, to  ensure
that a “fair proportion ” of federal contract and subcontract
dollars is awarded to small businesses  (P.L. 83 -163, the
Small Business Act (as amended) ).
The Competition in Contracting Act  of 1984  (CICA)
(enacted as part of the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984, P.L.
98-369, §§2701 -2753) requires that contracts be entered
into after “full and open competition through the use of
competitive procedures ” unless otherwise authorized by
law. To help facilita te contracting opportunities for small
businesses, Congress has authorized federal agencies , under
specified circumstances , to set aside contracts and award
sole-source contracts to  small businesses . Small businesses
that may receive sole -source contract a wards include
participants in “socioeconomic”  contracting programs .
Authorizations for sole -source awards to firms in these
programs  were made through distinct pieces of legislation,
as follows:
• 8(a) Program ; 8(a) Program participant sole -source
awards wer e authorized by  P.L. 95 -507, To amend the
Small Business Act and the Small Business Investment
Act of 1958, §202;
• Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone)
Program ; HUBZone firm sole -source awards were
authorized by  P.L. 105 -135, the HUBZone Act of 1997 ; • Service -Disabled Veteran -Owned Small Business
(SDVOSB) Program ; SDVOSB so le-source awards
were authorized by  P.L. 108 -183, the Veterans Benefits
Act of 2003 ;
• Women -Owned Small Business (WOSB) Program ;
WOSB sole -source awards were authorized by  P.L. 113 -
291, the Carl Levin and Howard P. “Buck ” McKeon
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2015 .
The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has its own
contrac ting preferences for veteran -owned small businesses
(VOSBs), created by the Veterans Benefits, Health Care,
and Information Technology Act of 2006 ( P.L. 109 -461).
VA is the only agency with a contracting program
specifically for VOSBs.  This VA -only program exists
alongside the government -wide SDVOSB program.
Contracting officers at the VA may award contracts on a
sole-source basis as long as the contract award will not
exceed $5 million (including options) and the award can be
made at a fair and reasonable price; they must also
prioritize  SDVOSBs first, and can only make sole source
awards to a VOSB if no responsible SDVOSB has been
identified.
Sole-Source Award  Conditions
When determining whether to consider making  a sole -
source award, a gencies generally consider the value of a
contract and the number of available small businesses able
to complete required work.  If a contracting officer at an
agency has a “ reasonable expectation ” of obtaining offers
from two or more  small businesses, a contract is typically
set-aside for small firms. However, regulations direct an
agency to make a  sole-source  award to a small business  if it
is the only firm that makes an “acceptable offer ” in
response to a set -aside and is “a responsible small business
concern ” (48 C.F.R. §19.502 -2(a)).
For contracts above the “simplified acquisition threshold”
of $350,000 , a contracting officer must “first consider an
acquisition for the small business socioeconomic
contracting programs” —i.e., contracting programs for
certain types of small businesses such as WOSBs, small
businesses locate d within a HUBZone, and SDVOSBs —
before setting aside a contract for small businesses in
general  (48 C.F.R. §19.203(c)) . If applicable conditions are
met, a contracting officer may choose to make a sole -source
award to a qualified business that participates  in one of the
socioeconomic contracting programs.
Agencies may make sole -source awards in order to reach
annual goals for small business participation in
procurement. There are five government -wide statutory
Sole-Source Contracts for Small Businesses
https://crsreports.congress.gov  small business contracting goals , not only for  small
businesses generally, but for small businesses owned by
socially and economically disadvantaged individuals
(including 8(a) Program participants) , WOSBs , HUBZone
firms , and SDVOSBs . For information on small business
contracting goal -making and attai nment, see  CRS Insight
IN12018, Federal Small Business Contracting Goals .
Federal Contracting Program Certifications
Firms that wish to be eligible for contract set -asides  or sole -
source awards are subject to certification requirements .
While firms may self-certify their status as small
businesses, each socioeconomic small business contracting
program  has eligibility and certification requirements.
Firms may obtain certification  for their status  through the
SBA ’s online certification platform . Procedures for filing a
challenge, or “protest” to a firm’s socioeconomic status are
outlined at 13 C.F.R. §126.800 -126.805 for HUBZone
firms, 13 C.F.R. §128.500 for SDVOSBs (and veteran -
owned small businesses),  and 13 C.F.R. §127.600 -§127.605
for WOSBs . Among 8(a) Program participants, a f irm’s
eligibility for award cannot be challenged or protested as
part of the solicitation or proposed contract award (48
C.F.R. §19.805 -2(d)).
Limits on Sole -Source Awards
Sole-source contract award limits generally range from $ 5
million to $ 8.5 million , depending on the type of small
business contract recipient , as shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Sole-Source Award Limit s
Small Business Type  Award Limit
Small Business  $350,000
8(a) Program Participant  $5.5 million ($ 8.5 million for
manufacturing contracts)
WOSB  $5.5 million ($ 8.5 million for
manufacturing contracts)
SDVOSB  $5 million ($ 8.5 million for
manufacturing contracts)
VOSB (VA only)  $5 million
HUBZone  $5.5 million ($ 8.5 million for
manufacturing contracts)
Source s: 48 C.F.R. §19.502 -2(a); 48 C.F.R. §19.805 -1(a)(2) ; 48 C.F.R.
§19.1506(a) -(c); 13 C.F.R. §128.405 ; 48 C.F.R. §819.7008 ; 48 C.F.R.
§19.1306 .
Note: Sole-source awards in excess of the above limits may be made
when  the SBA accepts the contract on behalf of certain group -owned
8(a) Program par ticipants .
In addition, there is a threshold at which 8(a) Program
participants  may not receive any additional 8(a) sole -source
awards (though they can still receive set -asides ). This
amount is set forth at 13 C.F.R. §124.519  and is
currently  $168,500,000 . It was last adjusted for inflation in
November 2022 . SBA does not count awards of less than
$350,000 toward this limit.
Firms owned by certain entities (group -owned firms)  in the
8(a) Program may receive sole -source awards in excess of the limits for individually  owned firms . The firms include
those owned by Alaska Native Corporations, Native
Hawaiian Organizations , federally recognized Indian
Tribes, and Community Development Corporations. For
more information about the 8(a) Program , see CRS Report
R48190, SBA’s 8(a) Business Development Program:
Structure and Current Issues .
For group -owned firms, P.L. 111 -84, the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Ye ar 2010,  §811, required
contracting officers to execute written justifications and
obtain approval for sole -source contracts in excess of $20
million, a threshold that was increased through regulatory
updates to account for inflation  (currently $30 million ). P.L.
116-92, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020, increased th e threshold to $100 million for
DOD (but not for other agencies) , and regulatory upd ates to
account for inflation have raised this value to $150 million .
Contracts Awarded to Small Businesses
The Small Business Act ( P.L. 85 -536) requires the General
Servic es Administration ( GSA ) to provide a report on all
prime contract procurements made each fiscal year. The
report , “Federal Procurement Data System Report ,” tallies
contracting preferences used  by agencies . For example, the
FY202 4 report states that the dollar value of contracts made
to small businesses as sole -source awards  was $30.3 billion ,
or 3.9% of contract obligations  (shown in Figure 1). This
amount is provided relat ive to total contract expenditures of
$774 billion , of which awards to  “other than small
business es” totaled $ 598 billion  and awards to s mall
business totaled $17 6 billion.  For more information about
where to find data on federal contracts made to small
businesses , see CRS Report R48185, Sources of Data on
Federal Small Business Contracts: In Brief .
Figure 1. FY202 4 Share of Small Business Contract
Dollars  Awarded as Sole-Source Awards
Source: GSA, “Final Data Report: FY202 4 Federal Procurement
Data System GSA Report, ” at https://www.gsa.gov/ policy -regulations/
policy/ acquisition -policy/ small-business -reports .
Note:  The GSA report is statutorily required to  include “all
procurements made for the period covered by the report and may
not exclude any contract awarded ,” while SBA reporting on
contracts awarded to small businesses excludes certain contracts
when  the work cannot realistically be performed by small businesses.
R. Corinne Blackford , Analyst in Small Business and
Economic Dev elopment Policy
Sole-Source Contracts for Small Businesses
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF12853  · VERSION 8 · UPDATED   IF12853
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.