https://crsreports.congress.gov
Updated March 2, 2026
Ukrainian Military Performance and Outlook
Since Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in
February 2022, the Ukrainian Armed Forces (UAF ) have
defended and repelled  Russian  advances,  despite  ongoing
disadvantages in personnel and a smaller  defense industry .
The UAF ha s demonstrated flexibility over the course of
the conflict  as well as an ability to integrate Western
security assistance . Nevertheless, t he UAF continues to face
obstacles , including p ersonnel and equipment  losses .
From FY2022 to FY2024 , Congress enacted five
supplemental appropriations measures to provide assistance
to Ukraine . The UAF’s evolving condition and performance
may be of interest to  the 119th Congress as Members weigh
the impact of U.S. support for the UAF and potentially
consider any further assistance  to Ukraine  or conduct
oversight of U.S. policies toward Ukraine and Russia .
Personnel
Since the beginning of the 2022 war, the UAF has suffere d
high levels of casualties  (data on Ukrainian casualties are
sparse , but one estimate places UAF killed as high as
140,000 ), lowering force quality. In addition,  desertion  and
draft evasion  pose continued challenge s to the UAF’s
ability to sustain operations. In January 2026, Ukraine’s
Defense Minister Mykhailo Fedorov estimated  that 200,000
soldiers were absent without official leave (AWOL) and
2 million men were avoiding draft not ices.
After Russia’s initial invasion of Ukraine in 2014, the UAF
gained important combat experience fighting Russian -led
forces in Ukraine’s eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk
(known as “the Donbas ”). In 2022, Ukraine was able to
quickly mobilize these veterans and other volunteers into
new volunteer Territorial Defense Forces (TDF) and
Reserve without the need for lengthy training.  This
arguably  contributed to UAF effectiveness , since Ukraine
did not have a fully developed professional
noncommissioned  officer (NCO) corps .
Many initial volunteers have been killed or wounded  since
2022 . Reportedly, the average Ukrainian soldier is over 40
years old , and s ome recruits have health or substance abuse
issues. Ukraine passed legislation in April 2024 to address
some recruitment issues . However, the government
continues to reject  some  calls to lower the conscription age
from 25 to 18 , a policy that would likely meet with  public
opposition.
In February 2025, the UAF implemented a new option  for
volunteers between the ages of 18 and 24 to sign one -year
contracts in return for higher wages, a signing bonus,
exemption from mobilization for 12 months, and other
social benefits. While this option initially drew som e
interest , the UAF has struggled  to recruit and retain  younger recruits , and reports indicate  recruitment  officials have
sometimes turned  to more coercive methods .
Training
To replace losses, recruiting and training new personnel
remain key tas ks. The UAF faces a dilemma in seeking to
adequately  train new recruits amid  demands to provid e
immediate reinforcements.  Ukrainian officials have
institute d new training standards, including centralized
training centers and  an increas e in basic training to 1.5
months  (up from one month ). Despite improvements, most
training for new recruits happens in their respective units.
This argua bly contributes to differ ing levels of capability
across the UAF , as some more elite units prioritize  training
and provide quality instructors.
Additionally, the UAF reportedly struggles to train officers
for staff positions to assist commanders in managing and
coordinating operations. A lack of trained staff officers has ,
in some cases , led to higher -level command staff
coordinating and managing tactical operations. The UAF
has announced organizational changes  (such as organizing
brigades under the command of a corps) t o streamline
management and coordination .
Equipment
The UAF operates  a mix of Western and Soviet -era or
Russian equipment and has sustained significant equipment
losses during the course of the war . The UAF has exhibited
resilience in the face of such los ses, in part due to  Western
security assistance and concerted UAF maintenance efforts .
The diversity of systems, continued losses, and varied
supply, however, undermine UAF standardization.
Ukrainian officials assert  Western security assistance
remains critical for supporting UAF operations. Ukraine has
nearly exhausted its supplies of Soviet and Russian
equipment ( especially artillery and ammunition ) and relies
on se curity assistance for a variety of key systems, such as
air defense and medium -range strike capabilities. Low
supplies  of artillery systems and ammunition have  forced
the UAF  to adapt to other systems such as drones.
Alongside Western security assistance, Ukraine’s domestic
defense industry has  increased production and continues to
innovate . Ukraine currently produces a wide range of
systems, including drones (tactical and long -range strike),
missiles , artillery systems, radar and electronic warfare,
ammunition, and armored vehicles. Ukrainian officials
maintain  that a robust and capable domestic defense
industry is essential to Ukraine’s long -term security  and for
reducing the country’s  reliance on security assistance .
According to one Ukrainian  estimate , as much as 76% of
the weapons and equipment  the UAF needs is now
produced  domestically.
Ukrainian Military Performance and Outlook
https://crsreports.congress.gov  Ukraine’s defense industry still faces multiple challenges ,
including accusations of corruption and fraud, labor
shortages, and Russian strikes. Additionally, Ukraine’s
defense industry has excess capacity b ut not enough
government funding to contract production. In response,
Ukraine has sought alternative funding mechanisms —
including foreign donors , joint production agreements ,
foreign investment , and potential  exports .
U.S. and Western Security Assistance
Since the start of Russia’s 2022 war, the United States  has
committed more than $66  billion , the EU over $ 70 billion,
and the UK over $1 7 billion  (among other donors) in
security assistance  to Ukraine . This support is coordinated
by NATO Security Assistance and Training for Ukraine
(NSATU ), currently led by a U.S. three -star general.
Simultaneously , Western o fficials have repeatedly voiced
concerns over poten tial escalation  of the conflict , defense
industrial  production capacity  challenges , and the
availability of funding to sustain security assistance.
Training
The United States and other allies have provided  training
and advice  to the UAF  since before Russia’s 2022 invasion .
Most training  efforts focus on employing Wester n security
assistance , basic infantry skills and unit -level development ,
and combined arms operations . Currently, the UK
(Oper ation Interflex ), the European Union Military
Assistance Mission Ukraine ( EUMAM ), and the United
States (the Joint Mult inational Training Group —Ukraine )
conduct a variety of training programs  for the UAF .
Equipment
The UAF continues to request a wide range of equipment
from the United States and other Western countries ,
especially advanced weapons  such as air defense systems
and ammunition, anti -drone capabilities, and fighter
support.  At the tactical  level, the UAF has identified
protected mobility  (e.g., armored vehicles) , counterbattery
radars, artillery , and fire support among its needs . Frontline
UAF soldiers and commanders have also reportedly
expressed concern  about the availability of basic supplies .
The focus of Western security assistance appears to have
shifted from donations  of existing equipment  to financing
procurement and  investment . In 2024, Ukraine and
Denmark reached an agreement ( the so-called “Danish
Model ”) to finance equipment purchase s from Ukraine’s
domestic defense industry. Additionally, in 2025 , NATO
and the United States created the Prioritized Uk raine
Requirements List (PURL) , through which  allies contribute
funds to purchase “ critical defence equipment ” from the
United States .
Current Milita ry Outlook
The UAF continues to demonstrate  high levels of tactical
flexibility and capability  in the face of Russian quantitative
advantages  in personnel, equipment, drones,  and air
support.  The UAF continues to hamper Russian efforts and
has thus far stymied any new large -scale Russian
breakthrough in Ukraine’s Donbas region.  Fighting remains  attritional  and positional, with the UAF
primarily focused on  defending the “ fortress belt ” of
Sloviansk and Kramatorsk , which anchor UAF defenses in
the Donbas region.  According to U.S. officials , Russia
captured 1,865 square miles of Ukrainian territory  in 2025 ,
but “ nowhere on the front did this equate to more than 60
miles of penetration or any territory of operational
significance.”  The UAF leadership has been criticized  for
its strategy of refusing to withdraw  from positions, even
risking potentia l encirclement, and for continuing to launch
offensives.
Ukraine’s strategy appears to be centered on limiting
Russian territorial advances and imposing more casualties
than Russia is able to replace . In January 2026, Ukrainian
defense minister  Fedorov said a strategic goal  was “ to kill
50,000 Russians per month.” While some reports  indicate
the UAF has at times succeeded in impos ing more
casualties than Russia can replace, other observers express
skepticism  about this strategy given the UAF’s own losses.
Some observers  argue for  a greater emphasis on targeting
Russian logistics and command centers, but the UAF lacks
sufficient  medium -range strike capabilities.
Another  component of  UAF strategy  has been to undermine
Russia’s ability to economically sustain its war by targeting
Russian oil production  and export facilities .
While th e UAF seeks to adopt NATO -style (mission
command) principles of command, it also exhibits traits of
Soviet -style (centralized, top -down) command. Some
observers have criticiz ed the UAF command  for poor
communication  and micromanagement.  To improve
coordination and maximize resources, the UAF has
implemented reforms by establishing corps that control a
set number of brigades and are responsible for  particular
section s of the fr ont line. Some UAF officials report
improved coordination, but the process is ongoing ; reports
indicate some corps are better resourced with personnel and
equipment  than others .
Recruiting, training, rotating, and retaining troops remain
challenge s for the UAF. The UAF faces severe  infantry
shortages and is seeking to recruit more personnel. Most
frontline UAF and TDF brigades are understrength  and
receive ad hoc rotation from the front line. With a  porous
front  line, Russian forces  are seeking to identif y, bypass,
and exploit weak UAF positions.
The UAF relies on a core of professional units to fill gaps in
the front  line and counter  Russian advances. Some
observers and UAF officers argue  these professional units
get priority for personnel and equipment at the expense of
other units.  Losses and exhaustion  also continue to degrade
these units’ capabilities, as they appear increasingly called
to various positions acros s the front line . Some observers
suggest that overreliance on select units, combined with
personnel losses, has contributed  to Russian advances.
Andrew S. Bowen , Analyst in Russian and European
Affairs
IF12150
Ukrainian Military Performance and Outlook
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF12150  · VERSION 16 · UPDATED
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.