https://crsreports.congress.gov
March 6, 2026
Iranian Kurds and Possible Support
Following  U.S. and Israel i military operations against the
Islamic Republic of Iran that commenced on February 28,
2026,  press reports  citing unnamed sources have stated that
the Trump Administration  may be considering possible
efforts  to provide material support to Iranian Kurdish
groups  to furt her weaken Iran’s regime . President Donald
Trump has said  he would embrace action by Iranian Kurds,
but the Administratio n to date has not confirmed any U.S.
support . Any such U.S. or Israeli support for Iranian Kurds ,
if confirmed,  could form part of a broader campaign to
decentralize  and/or systemically change  Iran’s political
structure. A number of Iranian Kurdish groups actively
oppose the Iranian regime, including s ome based  in the
neighboring Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI) . Iranian  state
repression and economic marginalization  appear to have
prevented  Iranian Kurd s from mounting serious resistance
to the Islamic Republic  to date . Congress may seek clarity
from Administrati on officials about any possible efforts,
and evaluate potential plans,  costs, benefits, and outcomes.
Reportedly, U.S. and Israeli strikes have targeted  Iranian
military and intelligence facilities in Kurdish areas of
northwest Iran (known in Kurdish as Rojhelat ). Apparent
Iranian attacks  have struck  some locations associated with
Iranian Kurdish opposition groups in the KRI . Iraq’s
Kurdistan Regional Government  and the national
government of Iraq  have both issued statements denying
their involvement with or support of a ny potential cross -
border incursion by KRI -based Iranian Kurds .
Figure 1. Kurds in the Middle East
Source: CRS, based on  open source material from the Central
Intelligence Agency  and the Washington Post .
Attempts to weaken or overthrow a  foreign government  via
support to a geographically peripheral group that differs
ethnically or religiously from the regime ’s leading figures
may find points of comparison and contrast with :
• Afghanistan  and t he 2001 defeat of the Sunni Islamist ,
ethnic Pashtun -dominated  Taliban  regime by the
Northern Alliance (led mainly by a Sunni -Shia mix of
ethnic Tajiks, Uzbeks , and Hazaras) , with U.S. and allied air and special operations forces support . The
Taliban returned  to power in 2021  after an insurgen cy.
• Syria  and e fforts  after 2011 by the United States  and
other Western countries , Turkey, and Arab Gulf states to
support various groups in Syria, whether against Bashar
Al Asad’s Alawite -led regime or against the Islamic
State (IS, alt. ISIS) organizatio n. A Turkey -backed
Syrian Sunni Islamist group deposed Asad in 2024 , and
has clashed since 2025 with Kurds who were U.S. anti -
IS partners, as well as  Alawite s and Druze.
Unseating or irreversibly weakening the Islamic Republic
could prove  to be a formidable task . The Islamic Republic
has survived external and internal challenges for 47 years . It
has had access to the proceeds of vast hydrocarbon
resources; it developed and frequently used a repressive
apparatus; its  security  personnel  have demonstr ated acumen
for advanced technology and cybersecurity; and the regime
has dispersed institutional strength and patronage
throughout Iran’s large and diverse geography and
population (see Figure 2) via political, economic, military,
and religious networks. Moreover, popular support for
Iran’s territorial cohesion and opposition to ethnic
separatism appears to extend beyond regime supporters .
Figure 2. Iran: “Ethn oreligious Distribution ”
Source: U.S. government map 788033AI (G00987) , October 2009 .
The outcome of any possible efforts to work with Iranian
Kurdish groups could depend on several factors, including
(1) the groups’ capabilities , cohesion, and  abilities to gain
support within Iran ; (2) the type  of assistance, training , or
direct military support  provided , including  with ground
operations, continuing airstrikes , or establishing “no -fly
zones” ; (3) regime forces’ ability to maintain control  in
urban centers and beyond ; and (4) whether an uprising by
Iranian Kurds and Possible Support
https://crsreports.congress.gov  Iranian Kurds (often estimated at  close to 10%  of Iran’s
population of over 90 million) on Iran’s mountainous
western periphery would foster or dampen  opposition to the
regime  in key Iranian cities  dominated by Shia  Persians and
Azeris . Around  60% of Iran’s Kurds are reportedly Sunni.
Since the early 20th century, Iranians have resisted several
efforts by outside powers (including the United States, the
United Kingdom, and the Soviet Union) to dictate or
influence domestic leadership and governance. Key Iranian
actors may weigh the widespread domestic poli tical and
socioeconomic grievances against the regime (apparent in
2025 -2026 nationwide protests ) alongside concerns that an
armed uprising could foment instability similar to that in
some other regional states over the past two decades . Some
may also oppo se the prospect that  minorities  back ed by
foreign actors could play an outsize d role in  shaping their
country’s  future .
Kurds in Iran and Elsewhere: Some
Historical  Context  for U.S. Relations
1920s -
1930s  Separatist efforts by Iranian Kurdish tribes after W orld
War I thwarted by Reza Shah Pahlavi , who sought to
disarm Kurdish groups and suppress Kurdish identity
(and whose son was the Shah overthrown in 1979) .
1946  Democratic Party of Iranian Kurdistan (PDKI)
establishe d 11-month Mahabad Republic under Soviet
protection after World War II , until Iranian
government forces regain ed control of the area.
1960s -
1970s  Israel, Iran, and the U nited States  support ed Iraqi
Kurdish rebels against Iraqi government forces until a
1975 Iran -Iraq agreement , beginning a longtime
association between Israel and Kurds  in the region .
1979 -
1984  Iranian Kurdish groups sporadically control led parts of
western Iran amid fighting with the new Islamic
Republic; government forces eventually prevail ed.
1991  Iraqi forces killed thousands in Kurdish areas of
northern Iraq  after U.S. officials encouraged uprisings
in the wake of the Gulf War;  U.S. military operations
and “no -fly zones” later stopp ed Iraqi forces from
regaining  control of these areas , leading to  de facto
autonomy  and, later, a federal arrangement after  2003.
1997  United States  designate d the Turkish -origin Kurdistan
Workers’ Party (PKK , which also has a presence in
Syria, Iraq, and Iran)  as a foreign terrorist organization.
2014  United States  began assisting Iraqi and Syrian Kurds to
counter  the Islamic Sta te organization; Turkey oppose d
U.S. assistance for PKK -linked Syrian Kurds .
2023  Iraq agree d with Iran to close bases of Iranian Kurdish
groups in Iraq near the border area , although  various
groups reportedly remain in the KRI.
2025  PKK announce d its dissolution  amid negotiations with
Turkey , pending future implementation.
2026  Regime forces in post -Asad Syria  compel led an end to
Syrian Kurds’ rule over much  of northe ast Syria,
effectively  ending the ir anti -IS efforts  with U.S. forces .
Iranian Kurdish Groups
Since  February 2026 , in the aftermath of a government
crackdown on nationwide protests in Iran , the following Iranian Kurdish groups  have joined  a Coalition of Political
Forces of Iranian Kurdistan , with a stated  aim to work with
other opposition groups to overthrow the Islamic Republic .
Kurdistan Free Life Party (PJAK).  Founded in 2004, t he
PJAK (designated in 2009  by the Treasury Department as a
Specially Designated Global Terrorist  for being a PKK
offshoot ) reportedly  has been  activ e against Islamic
Republic forces , perhaps accounting  for some 70%  of the
Kurdish attacks on the Iranian regime since 201 4.
Democratic Party of Iranian Kurdistan (PDKI).  Formed
in 1945, the socialist -oriented PDKI has helped lead past
insurgencies in Iran , and it may have  already carried out
attacks against Iran’s regime in March 2026.
Kurdistan Freedom Party ( PAK).  The PAK, founded in
1991 , fought alongside Iraqi Kurdish forces against the
Islamic State , and reportedly attacked  Iranian s ecurity
forces in early 2026 amid anti -government protests .
Khabat Organization.  Formed in 1980, Khabat also
fought the Islamic State.
Komala Party of Iranian Kurdistan  and Komala –
Reform Faction . Two of the three main branches  of the
socialist Komala Party, which was founded in 1969.
One source posits  that KRI -based Iranian Kurdish factions ,
taken together,  have around 2,500  fighters . Another asserts
that the groups may have sent hundreds into Iran in recent
weeks.
Issues for Congress
Strategy  and political -military  plans, authorizations ,
and appropriations.  Members may seek information ,
conduct fact -finding,  and consult with the Administration
on U.S. goals and plans . They may assess how  possible
support for or partnership with Kurd ish groups  might  affect
U.S. interests and regional security. Members may examine
questions related to  (1) protec ting any U.S. or partner
forces; (2) formulating  logistical and supply arrangements;
(3) considering the effects on  U.S. partners in Iraq and
Turkey; (4) coord inating with other Iranian substate  actors
who may have differing views on mobilizing minorities in
Iran; (5) preparing for tactics (including insurgency) that
may be employed by regime elements; and (6) avoid ing,
preventing, or responding to  human rights violations.
Congress could  mandate, permit , condition, or prohibit U.S.
military or intelligence  support , as well as equipment  and
funding for —and vetting and training of —partner forces .
Tools available to Congress  include authorizations of
military force , and authorizations and appropriations of a id.
Effects on regional actors . Possible e fforts to partner with
Iranian Kurds could result in prolonged U.S. -Israel -Iran
military action in KRI areas with  potential secur ity,
political, and economic consequences for Iraq . Potential
U.S.-Israel support for the PJAK , owing to  its PKK ties ,
could have implications for Turkey and Syria. Iranian
retaliation  would have implications for Arab Gulf states .
Jim Zanotti , Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs
Clayton Thomas , Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs
Christopher M. Blanchard , Specialist in Middle Eastern
Affairs
IF13172
Iranian Kurds and Possible Support
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF13172  · VERSION 1 · NEW
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.