https://crsreports.congress.gov
March 4, 2026
Rare Earth Element s and U.S. Supply Chains
Rare earth elements ( REE s) have  catalytic, magnetic,
electrical, and luminescent  properties  vital for civilian and
defense purposes.  REEs may include  17 ele ments —
scandium  (atomic symbol Sc), yttrium  (Y), and the  15
lanthanides —although some classifications exclude Sc.
REEs typically are found together in nature (Sc  is not found
in nature with other REEs ) and are not rare  in the Earth’s
crust.  The U.S. Geological Survey’s  (USGS’s)  2025
Critical Minerals List  (2025 CML ) includes most REEs,
except for promethium  (Pm), because the se elements  are
essential  for the U.S. economy and security,  have
vulnerable  U.S. supply chains , and are vital for products
and services.  Congress may consider  the role of the federal
government, international diplomacy and partnerships, and
public -private partnerships in making U.S. REE supply
chains more resilient to  help promote  a strong economy and
national security .
Light to Heavy REEs
The 15 lanthanides —which have  similar electron
configuration and atomic size , making them essential for
some applications —make  up one row of the periodic table .
They  generally can be categorized as light to heavy REEs .
The light REEs  (LREEs , with  lower atomic number s and
atomic weight s than the heavy REEs  [HREEs ]) include
lanthanum  (La), cerium  (Ce), praseodymium  (Pr),
neodymium  (Nd), Pm  (rare and unstable ), samarium  (Sm),
europium  (Eu), and gadolinium  (Gd) .
The HREEs  include terbium  (Tb), dysprosium  (Dy),
holmium  (Ho), erbium  (Er), thulium  (Tm), ytterbium  (Yb),
and lutetium  (Lu), plus Sc and Y.
U.S. Applications
Some  U.S. REE applications , listed from greatest to least
demand , include
• catalysts  (primarily Nd, La, Ce and Pr; used in  oil
refineries, catalytic converters, fuel additives, chemical
processing, air pollution controls);
• magnets  (primarily Nd, Tb, Dy, Pr; used in electronics,
vehicles, refrigeration, power generation, medical
imaging) and metal alloys  (primarily Nd, Y, La, Ce, Pr ;
used in  batteries, fuel cells, steel, superalloys,
aluminum/magnesium);
• glass and polishing  (primarily Nd, Gd, Er, Ho, La, Ce,
Pr; used in  polishing compounds, pigments and
coatings, ultraviolet resistant glass, photo -optical glass,
x-ray imaging) ;
• phosphors  (primarily Nd, Eu, Tb, Y, Er, Gd, Ce, Pr;
used in  phosphors -based displays, fluorescent lights,
medical imaging, lasers, fiber optics); and  • ceramics  (primarily Nd, Y, Eu, Dy, Lu, Gd, La, Ce, Pr;
used in capacitors, sensors, colorants, scintillators,
refractories).
Some U.S. REE defense applications  include satellite
communications, guidance systems, aircraft structures,  fly-
by-wire,  and smart missiles ( primarily Nd, Eu, Tb,  Dy, Y,
Lu, Sm, Pr, La).
Dominance of the People’s Republic of China
The People’s Republic of China  (PRC , or China ) mines
about 60% and processes and separates  about 90% of global
REEs . It also  manufactures about 94% of REE -based
magnets. China’ s monopolistic role  in the REE market  has
include d subsidizing China’s REE industry, distorting REE
prices, hindering fair competition, and restricting REE
supplies. In 2023, the PRC banned  the export of REE
processing and refining technologies. In 2025 , it announced
export controls  on Sm, Gd, Tb, Dy, Lu, Sc, and Y.
China  is the leading produc er of Sc, Y, and the 14
lanthanides on the USGS 2025 CML . In 202 5, the largest
REE mine production  was in China (270,000 metric tons
[MT] of rare earth  oxide equivalent  [REO ]), followed by
the United States ( 51,000 MT  total from two mines, one
each in California and Georgia ), Australia  (29,000 MT),
and Burma  (22,000 MT). In 202 5, the largest estimated
reserves  (i.e., the working inventory of mining companies’
supplies of an economicall y extractable mineral
commodity)  were in China (44 million MT), followed by
Brazil (21 million MT), Australia ( 6.3 million MT), Russia
(3.8 million MT),  Vietnam (3.5 million MT), the United
States (1.9 million MT), and Greenland (1.5 million MT).
In 202 5, the United States was 67% net import reliant  for
most  REEs  from China, Malaysia, Estonia , and Japan . It
was 100% net import reliant for Sc from Japan  and China
and for Y from China , Germany , Austria , and the Republic
of Korea .
REE Resources
Several Congress es and Administration s have directed  the
USG S to identify  critical mineral resources, including  REE
resources , in the United States and other countries ( e.g.,
Afghanistan ) and to track  global  REE mine production and
reserves  to increas e U.S. REE supply chains ’ resilien ce.
The USGS critical minerals update  summarizes some
related federal government activities from 2017 to  2025.
The USGS defines a resource  as a concentration of
naturally occurring solid, liquid , or gaseous material in or
on the Earth’s crust in such form and amount that economic
extraction of a commodity from the concentratio n is
currently or potentially feasible. Principal economic sources
of REE s include  the minerals  bastna esite, monazite, and
loparite , as well as some  surficial  clay deposits.  Other less
conventional potential surficial economic sources  may
Rare Earth Elements and U.S. Supply Chains
https://crsreports.congress.gov  include heavy mineral sands, placer deposits, mine waste ,
and coal. The Department of Energy ( DOE ) plans  to
collaborate with th e USGS to investigate  some of these
unconventional REE sources .
REE minerals  form  in atypical g eologic conditions  and
occur in uncommon minerals in unusual rock types , so
potential resources occur in only a few places around the
globe . REE minerals  typically occur in small concentrations
in rocks. A high-grade REE deposit  is usually less than
10% by weight  concentration . REE  minerals may contain
multiple REEs bound tightly together  in the miner al’s
crystal structure  and may contain thorium and/or uranium ;
these characteristics m ay lead to  technical challenges  and
higher costs  to separate individual REEs , and to separate
and dispose of any uranium or thorium.
Congress established  and appropriated funds  in P.L. 117 -58
for the USGS Earth Mapping Resources Initiative ( Earth
MRI ) to identify critical mineral resources . In 2025 , the
USGS published  some  reports about domestic REE
resources , including  studies  of REEs in  some  Mountain
Pass, CA , deposits  and coal deposits .
REE Mining and Pr ocessing
In 2010, the USGS  published an overview  of REE
resources, potential domestic deposits, and information
about exploration projects and mining. The USGS
identified  REE deposits  in Alaska, California, Colorado,
Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Missouri, Nebraska, New
Mexico, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, and
Wyoming. In 2018, t he USGS  published  an expanded ,
updated  overview  of domestic REE deposits and  global
REE  advanced exploration and active mines . (See also a
2023 review of global REE projects .) According to the
USGS,  major active REE mine s include  Bayan Obo,
Daluxiang, Maoniuping, Weishan , and south China clay
deposits in China; bastnaesite in Mountain Pass, C A; heavy
mineral sands in the southeastern United States ; Mount
Weld in Australia; Karnasurt Mountain in Russia; Buena
Norte in Brazil; and Dong Pao Mine in Vietnam. The
USGS identified some advanced REE exploration projects
in Bear Lodge, WY;  Bokan Mountain, AK; Elk Creek, NE;
and Round Top, TX , in the United States,  plus others in
Australia, Brazil, Canada, Greenland, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kyrgyzstan, India, Madagascar, Malawi, Namibia, South
Africa, Sweden, Tanzania, and Turkey.
Because of the geologic characteristics described above ,
REE ore mineral extraction is more technically challenging
and expensive  than some  other types of mineral extraction ,
such as  copper mining and refining . Large amounts of non-
ore material may need to be extracted to process the ore
minerals . Mining of surficial deposi ts is less technically
challenging and less expensive  than mining the subsurface ;
however , most surficial deposits have comparatively lower
concentrations  of REEs  than ore minerals , requiring more
total material extraction  to recover the same amount of
REEs by weight . After extraction,  the minerals must be
further  processed , often with complex chemical  and
physical  treatments , to yield hig h-purity oxides of
individual REE s (e.g., NdO ). The mined material is  often
transported  to other  facilities  away from the mine for
processing, with additional  land,  energy, water, and infrastructure requirements  plus transport costs . For
metallurgical appl ications, such as magnets , the REOs  are
further processed  and separated  to high -purity metals (e.g.,
99.9% Nd metal)  and then  combined into  metal alloys (e.g.,
Nd-iron-boron based magnets) . Because of  mineralogic and
technical challenges, only some REEs may be extracted or
processed  from REE minerals . For example, the Mountain
Pass mine  in California  produced  Eu, Ce, and La  in the past
due to higher demand  for some applications  and now
produces  Nd and Pr due to higher demand for magnets .
Initiatives  for Resilient REE U.S. Supply Chains
Congress and the Trump Administration have directed the
USGS , DOE , and other federal entities to advance and
support research and development  to ident ify REE
resource s and supply chain vulnerabilities , as well as to
advance  extraction, processing, separation , component
development , product manufacturing , and recycling . The
federal government is working with private companies and
some other countries to secure resilient REE supply chains.
In May 2025, MP Materials , which operates the Mountain
Pass REE mine , signed a  memorandum of understanding
(MOU ) with the Saudi Arabian mining company Maaden to
develop a n REE supp ly chain in Saudi Arabia , during  a
U.S.-Saudi Arabia Investment Forum where President
Trump secured a $600 billion Saudi Arabia n investment  in
the energy, defense , and mining sectors. In 2024, the
Department of Defense (DOD), which is “using a
secondary Department of War designation” under
Executive Order 14347 , dated September 5, 2025,
announced  a goal to secure  a complete mine -to-magnet
REE supply chain by 2027. In July 2025, MP Materials
established a public -private partnership with DOD  where
DOD will acquire $500 million in stock ; extend a $150
million loan for HREE separation expansion ; and commit to
an REE price floor, offering direct payments to MP
Materials if prices fall below $110 per kilogram of Nd -Pr.
In January 2026, the Trump Administration announced
further critical minerals and REEs initiatives  that led to the
formation of a  critical mineral trade zone , investments in
USA Rare Earth  company , and a critical minerals
ministerial . On Febr uary 2, 2026, the White House
announced  Project Vault , a $12 billion initiative to establ ish
the U.S. Strategic Critical Minerals Reserve . USA Rare
Earth  has indicated  it may be a supplier of REEs to the
stockpile and that the initiative will reduce U.S. reliance on
REE supplies from China.
Congressional Considerations
Congress may consider  whether federal efforts —such as the
USGS ’s Earth MRI, DOE’s Critical Materials
Collaborative , DOD’s public -private partnerships , and  the
Export -Import Bank’s  role in  Project Vault —are sufficient
to develop resilient U.S. REE supply chains. Legislation
introduced in the 119th Congress may further support this
aim. For example, H.R. 2969  and S. 1463  would allow the
Secretary of the Interior to enter into MOUs  with foreign
countries  for scientifi c and technical cooperation to map
critical minerals and REEs.  S. 429  would secure reliable
critical minerals and REE supplies through trade and
strategic partnerships. H.R. 7126  and S. 3659  would
establish a U.S. strategic resilience reserve. H.R. 6696  and
S. 2839  would establish a critical minerals security alliance.
Rare Earth Elements and U.S. Supply Chains
https://crsreports.congress.gov  | IF13171  · VERSION 1 · NEW  S. 2550  would provide for  international cooperation for
secure critical mineral supply chains . Linda R. Rowan , Analyst in Natural Resources and Earth
Sciences
IF13171
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.