CRS INSIGHT
Prepared for Members and
Committees of Congress
INSIGHT i
U.S. and Israeli Military Operations Against
Iran: Issues for Congress
March 1, 2026
On February 28, 2026, the United States and Israel launched military operations  against targets in Iran.
The United States and Iran had been engaged in talks over Iran’s nuclear program , amid broader U.S.
concerns over Iran’s missile arsenal , terrorism, and support to armed groups. President Donald Trump  and
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu  addressed Iranian citizens directly in their public remarks,
encouraging Ira nians to use any opportunities created by the strikes to overthrow the Islamic Republic
government, which has ruled Iran since 1979. International reactions have varied, with Russia  and China
condemning U.S. and Israeli actions, and some European  and Arab  governments  denouncing Iran’s
countera ttacks.
Iran’s Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and other  senior Iranian security leaders  have been killed. Iranian
officials have announced transitional leadership and continue retaliatory missile and drone attacks on
Israel, bases in the region hosting U.S. forces, and targets in Arab Gulf countries and adjacent waters. As
of March 1, civili ans reportedly had been killed in Iran, Israel , Kuwait , the United Arab Emirates  (UAE ),
and Syria , and some U.S. servicemembers had been killed or wounded. The State Department has advised
U.S. citizens worldwide  to exercise caution and “follow the guidance in the latest [embassy] security
alerts.” Strikes by Iran have damaged airports and ports in the region, and regional airspac e closures have
caused global disruptions. Apparent Iranian strikes on ships  near the Strait of Hormuz  highlight threats to
that critical chok epoint for transnational shipments of oil and natural gas.
Developments in the conflict and global responses present Congress with short - and long -term policy
questions across several domains.
U.S. Objectives and Plans
President Trump has stated a range of U.S. objectives and options since the start of the operations. On
February 28, the President said “our objective is to defend the American peo ple by eliminating imminent
threats from the Iranian regime.” He reiterated long -standing U.S. insistence that Iran “can never have a
nuclear weapon,” and said that U.S. strikes on Iran seek “to destroy their missiles and raze their missile
industry to the  ground”; “to annihilate their navy”; and, “to ensure that the regime’s terrorist proxies can
no longer destabilize the region or the world.” President Trump encouraged the Iranian people to “take
Congressional Research Service
https://crsreports.congress.gov
IN12662
Congressional Research Service  2
over” their government in the wake of U.S. operations, tell ing members of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps, armed forces, and police that they should disarm in order to be “treated fairly with total
immunity.” In a March 1 interview , the President said that he has agreed to engage remaining Iranian
leaders in talks, and he declined to answer a question about possible U.S. support for a popular uprising in
Iran.
The Future of Iran and the Middle East  Region
The death of Iran’s Supreme Leader and U.S. and Israeli statements encouraging regime change imply
fundamental questions about Iran’s future governance and stability. Following Khamenei’s death, Iranian
officials named an interim governing council consisting  of President Masoud Pezeshkian, judiciary head
Gholamhossein Mohseni Ejei , and Guardian Council  member Ayatollah Alireza Arafi . In January 2026,
Iranian authorities killed  thousands of protestors, demonstrating a willingness to use violence to maintain
power. Reports from Iran indicate  that the regime has both supporters and opponents within the country’s
diverse population of 90 million people. To date, an organized, effective Iran -based opposition movement
does not appear to have  coalesced, but disruption to the regime’s instruments  of control could create
opportunities for such a movement. Any post -Khamenei leaders in Iran will face considerable challenges
in governing the country after decades of authoritarian rule, ongoing corruption, international sanctions,
and conflict.
Congress, the President, War Powers, and Oversight
The 119th Congress has debated  the President’s authority to use force in I ran. The Administration
consulted with some congressional leaders prior to  the strikes and reportedly notified some  ahead of
initiating U.S. operations. The War Powers Resolution  (WPR), among other measures, requires  the
President to inform Congress of certain deployments abroad and the “introduction of United States Armed
Forces into hostilities,” providing expedited procedures  for congressional consideration of authorization
or disapproval of such presidential action. Members may consider war powers resolutions in the House
(H.Con.Res. 38 ) and Senate  (S.J.Res. 104 ) to direct the President to remove U.S. forces from hostilities
against Iran unless a declaration of war or authorization to use military force has been enacted . In June
2025, the Senate rejected  a discharge motion for a similar resolution ( S.J.Res. 59 ).
Outlook
Congress may examine U.S. objectives and assess the Administration’s priorities, including how the
United States could respond to Iranian concessions or intransigence and the extent of U.S. alignment with
Israel and other partners. C ongress may seek information from the Administration and conduct its own
fact-finding about plans to secure materials, equipment, and personnel from Iran’s nuclear, missile, and
drone programs if state authority there is interrupted or changes. Congress al so may assess what may
come next in Iran, including possibilities of revolution or a weakened but reconstituted Islamic Republic.
Current operations mark the fifth U.S. military engagement with Iran since the Iran -backed militant group
Hamas attacked Israel in October 2023 : U.S. forces defended Israel during Israel’s three conflicts with
Iran in April 2024, November 2024 , and June 2025 , and U.S. forces separately struck  Iranian nuclear sites
in June 2025. In preparation for the current “Operation Epic Fury,” additional U.S. air and naval as sets
deployed to the Middle East. The nature and pace of U.S. operations to date suggests that Congress could
conduct its own examination of the amounts of munitions and air and missile defense assets  that U.S. and
partner forces may be expending . Congress may assess related implications for U.S. and partner
Congressional Research Service  3
IN12662  · VERSION 2 · NEW   stockpiles and global readiness, including through combatant command posture assessments and
Administration appropriations requests.
U.S. military dep loyments in the Middle East and support to partner governments have sought to deter
Iran and assure regional and global actors that Iranian threats could be met with decisive force.
Fundamental change to Iran’s government could reduce, increase, or obviate  the need for some such
deployments and change considerations around some U.S. support to regional partners. Iran’s attacks on
Arab Gulf countries may also deepen its isolation. Prolonged U.S. and partner confrontation with Iran,
lasting disruptions to Gul f energy flows, commerce, or travel, or Iran’s descent into internal crisis could
generate calls or continued, reduced, or expanded U.S. attention and resources.
Author Information
Clayton Thomas
Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs
Jeremy M. Sharp
Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs
Christopher M. Blanchard
Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs
Jim Zanotti
Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff
to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of
Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of
information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role.
CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United
States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However,
as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the
permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.