CRS INSIGHT
Prepared for Members and
Committees of Congress
INSIGHT i
Law Enforcement and the Evolving Counter -
Unmanned Aircraft Systems (C -UAS)
Landscape
February 27, 2026
As the  use of unmanned aircraft systems  (UAS) —commonly referred to as  drones —for both commercial
and recreational purposes has increased, so too has law enforcement agencies ’ use of this technology.
Simultaneously, law enforcement has been concerned about the malicious  use of drones  and the ability to
counter it. UAS  may pose unique  public safety or security risks . Some have warned, for instance , that
drones can be used as reconnaissance tools for crim inals “ because  they can fly past bollards, checkpoints,
and other security mechanisms.” For example, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) has noted  that
transnational criminal organizations use drones to surveil and evade border officials. Drones have also
been used to drop illicit drugs and other contraband into jails or prisons . The Federal Bureau of Prisons,
for example, notes  that criminal networks deliver  illicit drugs, weapons, cell phones, and other contraband
to inmates via drones and that these drone incursions are increasing.  Yet another  concern involve s
potential use of drones to “drop a bomb , shoot firearms,  or spray a poiso n gas over large crowds of
people ” at a public even t. Consequently , policymakers have questioned  whether or how law enforcement
may be able to engage in counter -unmanned aircraft system  (C-UAS) activities —including detecting,
identifying, monitoring, tracking, communicating with, and disrupting or disabling suspicious or
malicious drones.
Law Enforcement C-UAS Landscape
Law enforcement C-UAS activitie s generally fall into two broad categories: detection (including
monitoring and tracking) and mitigation (including both kinetic and non -kinetic solutions ). However, the
U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and other fe deral agencies  have advised that various federal criminal
laws have generally limit ed law enforcement C -UAS options . For instance, criminal surveillance laws,
like the Wiretap Act  and Pen/Trap Statute , may be implicated when law enf orcement attempts to intercept
signals or communications in order to detect, identify, monitor, track, or communicate with a drone and
its operator. Certain mitigation techniques, such as jamming (e.g., blocking or interfering with signals and
communicatio ns), spoofing (e.g., modifying signals), and hacking (e.g., accessing a drone’s
communications), may involve navigating laws that surround communication lines, stations, or systems ;
Congressional Research Service
https://crsreports.congress.gov
IN12661
Congressional Research Service  2
interference with satellite operations ; and the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act . And law enforcement
attempts to disrupt , disable, or destroy a drone may implicate  federal laws that prohibit destroying or
disabling an aircraft , such as the Aircraft Sabotage Act  and Aircraft Piracy Act .
Law Enforcement C -UAS Authorities
The Preventing Emerging Threats Act of 2018 (Division H of P.L. 115 -254; 6 U.S.C. §124n ) granted DOJ
and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security  (DHS)  certain C -UAS authorities to protect covered
facilities and assets from drones. In doing so, it provi ded them with relief from possible violations of
certain federal laws, including those noted  above , when taking  particular  actions, including those related
to detecting, identifying, monitoring, and tracking drones; warning the drone operator; and disrupting
control of, seizing, and disabling, damaging, or destroying the drone. The National Defense Authorization
Act for Fisca l Year 2026 (FY2026 NDAA;  P.L. 119 -60) amended 6 U.S.C. §124n to authorize these
agencies to take such actions when “necessary to enforce the law, protect the public, or to mitigate a
credible threat that an unmanned aircraft system or unmanned aircraft poses to the safety or security of a
covered facility or asset.” The 6 U.S.C. §124n authorities were originally limited to a four -year period
following enactment of the Preventing Emerging Threats Act of 2018. They have since been extended
several times , most recently through the FY2026 NDAA , and are currently set to expire on September 30,
2031.
Until recently, Congress had not authorized state, local, tribal, or territorial ( SLTT ) law enforcement to
engage in  C-UAS activities because of  potential violati ons of certain federal statutes . However, in
response to growing concerns about law enforcement’s ability  and capacity to mitigate potential  drone
threats, Congress  granted SLTT law enforcement and correctional agencies authority through the FY2026
NDAA  to engage in actions to mitigate  potential  UAS threats. This authority is contingent on these
entities  undergoing DOJ training and certification. DOJ, in consultation with  the U.S. Departments of
Homeland Security, Defense, and Transportation, is required to develop regulations  for this training by
June 2026 . DOJ is also to maintain a list of authorized C-UAS systems and technologies that may be used
by law enforcement  and report on SLTT C -UAS use .
Law enforcement entities, including agencies outside of DOJ and DHS a t the federal, state, local, tribal,
and territorial levels, that have not completed the training and certification required to engage in C -UAS
activities —and even those who have —can still reach out to DOJ or DHS to request assistance when the
use of C -UAS  measures are being considered to assist with their law enforcement missions or to protect
an event. However, in congressional testimony , officials from DOJ’s National Security Division and
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) noted that while the FBI is authorized to conduct C -UAS activities
at special events, it only has the capacity to cover a fract ion of them.
In additional support to SLTT law  enforcement ’s C-UAS activities, the FY2026 NDAA also expanded the
purpose areas of two criminal justice grant programs —the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Ass istance
Grant (JAG) Program  and the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Program —to allow
recipients to use funds to purchase and operate  approved C -UAS technology.
Going Forward
Policymakers may no w look to how these expanded  SLTT  C-UAS authorities are being implemented. In
particular, they may examine how DOJ rolls out the C -UAS training and certification and whether SLTT
law enforcement are applying or able to be certified.  Given that SLTT law en forcement must report when
they engage in  authorized C -UAS activities, policymakers may opt to evaluate how these expanded
authorities are used. Congress might also examine how DOJ and DHS entities continue to conduct  C-
UAS activities to support state and local agencies in their investigative missions and to secure special
events.
Congressional Research Service  3
IN12661  · VERSION 1 · NEW  Author Information
Kristin Finklea
Specialist in Domestic Security
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff
to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of
Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of
information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role.
CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United
States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However,
as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the
permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.