CRS INSIGHT
Prepared for Members and
Committees of Congress
INSIGHT i
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Immigration Judge Staffing Issues
March 2, 2026
Immigration judge (IJ) staffing at the U.S. Department of Justice’s (DOJ’s) Executive Office for
Immigration Review (EOIR; immigration courts) has long been insufficient to  adjudicate its pending
caseload  and keep up with the receipt of new immigration cases, particularly removal proceedings ,
contributing to large backlogs  in the immigration court system . These backlogs have been exacerbated by
record -high case receipts  in recent years.
IJs, career employees within the executive branch, are attorneys appointed by the At torney General . IJ
hiring is largely contingent on congressional appropriations.  EOIR had steadily increased IJ hiring and
grown its IJ corps ( i.e., total number of IJs on staff) in recent years  (Figure 1). In FY2023, EOIR hired
133 IJs, its largest annual number  of hires . The IJ corps reached  a high of 735 at the end of FY2024 .
Since FY2025 , the IJ corps has declined , with  substantially higher than typical levels of departures .
Reportedly,  some  IJs have left EOIR under options for early retirement or deferred resignation  while
others have been  fired . CRS estimates that 115 IJs separated from EOIR in FY2025 , the highest annual
number  of separations since at least 2011  (see Figure 1 note for estimation methodology) . In the first
quarter of FY2026, 88 IJs departed EOIR . EOIR has continued to hire IJs (14 in FY2025 and 11 FY2026
Q1), but not at a level to restore its staffing to the previous level.
By the end of FY2025, the IJ corps had declined to 634. At the end of the first quarter of FY2026, EOIR
had 557 IJs on staff , down nearly one quarter ( 178 IJs ) from the peak staffing level in FY 2024 . This
number does not include temporary IJs (discussed below ). The FY2025 reconciliation law  (P.L. 119 -21),
appropriated $3.33 billion to DOJ for several  purposes, incl uding to hire IJs and support staff. The law
authorizes EOIR for a staffing level of  “not more than 800 ” IJs, effective November 1, 2028.
Congressional Research Service
https://crsreports.congress.gov
IN12664
Congressional Research Service  2
Figure 1. Immigration Judges : Hired, Departed, and T otal on Board, FY2011 -FY2026 Q1
Source: EOIR analysis of “Immigration Judge (IJ) Hiring,” Adjudication Statistics, January 2026.
Notes:  Figure does not include temporary IJs. CRS imputed departures as the sum of the number of IJs o n board at the
end of the previous fiscal year and hires in the given fiscal year minus the IJs on board at the end of the given fiscal year .
Under the current Trump Administration, EOIR has focused on hiring temporary IJs as a mechanism for
reducing the backlog  and widening the pool of potential applicants . In August 2025, EOIR published a
final rule, “ Designation of Temporary Immigra tion Judges .” The rule amended 8 C.F.R. §1003.10 (e),
which , under a 2014 interim final rule  (IFR) , authorized the EOIR Director to hire as temporary IJs
former IJs, former members of the Board of Immigr ation Appeals (EOIR’s appellate body) , current or
retired EOIR administrative law judges , administrative law judges from other executive branch agencies ,
and DOJ attorneys with 10 years of experience in immigration law , for renewable six -month terms . The
2014 IFR stated that hiring temporary IJs would “increase the number of ma tters EOIR could bring to a
final disposition” by assigning temporary judges to “a discrete category of cases, such as motions and
bond proceedings, freeing up permanent immigration judge time to adjudicate more complicated removal
cases,” but not ed that t he rule would not “limit the assignment of temporary immigration judges in the
type of cases they may adjudicate .”
As amended by the August 2025 rule, 8 C.F.R. §1003.10(e) now authorizes  the Director to designate “any
attorney” to serve as a temporary immigration judge for six -month renewable terms.  In a response to
comments  on the proposed version of the rule, EOIR stated that the 2014  criteria for temporary IJs “were
too narrow and impeded the Department ’s ability to use the [temporary immigration judge]  authority to
the extent needed. Rather than adopt different benchmarks by regulation, the Department has decided to
adop t the same approach that it has long taken for permanent IJs —that is, require by regulation that they
be attorneys but leave the specific criteria to internal policy.”  The rule also  stated, “ The Department does
not view its authority to appoint TIJs as a s ubstitute for hiring to fill permanent IJ positions and continues
to recruit candidates to fill permanent IJ positions. ”
Since then,  EOIR has relied on hiring military attorneys  as temporary IJs, as authorized by the U.S.
Department of Defense  (DOD) . EOIR requested  DOD  detail up to 600 lawyers to serve as temporary IJs.
In October 2025 , EOIR announced it had appointed  25 temporary IJs  assigned to 19 courts ; in February
2026 , EOIR annou nced  it had appointed  an additional 27 temporary IJs  assigned to 18 immigration
courts . EOIR’s chan ge in criteria for temporary IJs and hiring military lawyers has been condemned by
some stakeholders , including over concerns that such temporary judges may
Congressional Research Service  3
IN12664  · VERSION 2 · NEW  lack n ecessary immigration expertise . In contrast to that criticism,  EOIR states  in the rule , “Immigration
law experience is not always a strong predictor of success as an IJ, and EOIR has hired i ndividuals from
other Federal agencies and Department components without prior immigration experience who have
become successful and exemplary IJs. ” It remains unclear how the departure of permanent IJs and
addition of temporary IJs will impact the backlog.
In the 119th Congress, Members have introduced the Temporary Immigration Judge Integrity Act  in the
House and the Senate  (H.R. 6497  and S. 3326 ). The measures would codify in statute the Attorney
General’s authority to hire temporary IJs under the 2014 eligibility requirements and implement certain
training requirements.
Author Information
Holly Straut -Eppsteiner
Analyst in Immigration Policy
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff
to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of
Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of
information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role.
CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United
States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However,
as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the
permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.