CRS INSIGHT
Prepared for Members and
Committees of Congress
INSIGHT i
U.S. Military Operations Against Iran’s
Missile and Nuclear Programs
March 6, 2026
On February 28, 2026, the United States and Israel launched military operations  against Iran . The same
day, President Donald J. Trump listed among the operation’s objectives preventing Iran from acquiring a
nuclear weapon, destroying Iran’s missiles, and “ [razing] their missile industry to the ground.”  Some
Members of Congress have questioned  the U.S. military operations in Iran given President Trump’s
previous comments  that, as a result of the June 2025 U.S. -Israeli strikes, “ Iran’s key nuclear enrichment
facilities have been completely and totally obliterated. ” Other Members have supported  the President’s
action, citing  Iran’ s efforts to reconstitute its nuclear program and its ballistic missile capabilities.
Iran’s Ballistic Missile and Drone Programs
Iran has developed ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, and space -launch vehicles, as well as drones (i.e.,
unmanned aircraft  systems, or UAS).  Iran’s ballistic missile inventory has included short - and medium -
range ballistic missiles, the largest of which have an estimated range of approximately 2,000 kilometers
(1,864 miles), according  to a 2020 U.S. government estimate. Iran has also mass -produced the Shahed -
136, a long -range one -way attack drone, and has provided  these drones to Russia for use in its war in
Ukraine. The 2025 Worldwide Threat Assessment  stated, “ Iran has fielded a large quantity of ballistic and
cruise missiles a s well as [UAS]  that can strike throughout the region and continues efforts to improve
their accuracy, lethality, and reliability. ”
Since February 28, U.S. and Israeli aircraft  have targeted bases and equipment  associated with Iran’s
ballistic missile program , including missiles Iran may have stored  in underground  facilities. The effect of
the strikes on Ir an’s inventory of ballistic missiles and production capacity is unclear. Following the
Israeli and U.S. attacks, Iran has reportedly conducted  ballistic missile and drone  strikes on U.S. and
partner military and civilia n sites in several countries.
The size of Iran’s ballistic missile inventory is uncertain. A 2019 Defense Intelligence Agency report
described the inventory as “substantial.” In 2022, then -U.S. Central Command Commander General
Kenneth McKenzie testified Iran had an inventory of “over 3,000 ballistic missiles of various types.” A
2026 article reported  Iran’s inventory at more than 2,000 medium -range ballistic missiles.
Congressional Research Service
https://crsreports.congress.gov
IN12665
Congressional Research Service  2
Israeli and U.S. officials have stated varying estimates of Iran’s ballistic missile production capacity. On
March 1, the Israeli military estimated  Iran was producing “dozens of ballistic missiles per month.” On
March 2, Secretary of State Marco Rubio said Iran had been producing “over 100” s uch missiles a month.
U.S. officials  reportedly said, prior to June 2025, Iran was producing 50 missiles per month.
Iran’s ballistic missiles were also the target  of Israeli airstrikes during the June 2025 U.S. -Israeli
operation. Iran may have made efforts to rebuild its missile inventory. An October 2025 media report ,
citing European intelligence sources , stated Iran accepted s hipments of chemical precursors for solid
rocket motor propellant. In November 2025, the U.S. Treasury Department sanctioned  entities and
individuals associated with the “procurement of b allistic missile propellant ingredients” on behalf of Iran.
Iran’s Nuclear Program
Iran for decades has maintained a uranium enrichment program . Uranium enrichment can produce both
low-enriched uranium, which can be used in nuclear power reactors, and highly enriched uranium (HEU),
which is one of the two types of fissile material used in nuclear weapons. Tehran asserts its enrichment
program is only meant to produce fuel for peaceful nuclear applications .
Whether the U.S. -Israeli strikes since February 28 have affected Iran’s nuclear facilities is unclear. On
March 4, based on analysis of satellite imagery, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) reported
“no damage to facilities containing nuclear material in Iran ,” but some damage “at entrances” to Iran’s
largest enrichment facility. The IAEA, which implements safeguards  on Iran’s nuc lear facilities because
the government is a state party to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, withdrew inspectors from Iran in
June 2025 after U.S. -Israeli airstrikes on Iranian nuclear facilities,  including those associated with
Tehran’s enrichment prog ram.
The extent to which those strikes impacted Iran’s enrichment program is unclear. The IAEA  has not been
able to inspect the attacked Iranian nuclear facilities. U.S. government repo rts have provided differing
assessments of the June strikes’ impacts. According to the 2025 U.S. National Security Strategy , the
strikes “ significantly degraded ” Iran’s nuclear program, while the 2026 National Defense Strategy  stated
the strikes “ obliterated ” the program.”
The U.S. intelligence community has for years assessed  that Iran could have the  capability to produce
nuclear weapons at some poin t, but also that Tehran halted its nuclear weapons program in late 2003 and
had not mastered all of the necessary technologies for building such weapons. U.S. intelligence has also
consistently  assessed  that Tehran ha s not reauthorized the develop ment of  nuclear weapons.
Constraints imposed on Iran’s nuclear program required by the 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action
addressed  concerns about  the speed with which Iran could produce sufficient amount of fissile material
for a nuclear weapon.  Under these constraints,  Tehran would have needed one year  to produce enough
fissile material  for a nuclear weapon. In May 2025 , the Defense Intelligence Agency  assessed that Iran
then would have needed “probably less than one week” to produce that amount  of fissile material. In
November 2025, Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Kazem Gharibabadi  said Iran was not enrichi ng
uranium.  On March 2, IAEA Direct or General Rafael Mariano  stated  the agency ha d no evidence of “a
structured [Iranian] program to manufacture nuclear weapons.”
Considerations for Congress
Congress may consider assessing the status and scope of existing reporting requirements  on Iran,
including of Section 1245 of P.L. 111 -84 (10 U.S.C. §113 note ), which directed the Se cretary of Defense
(who is using “Secretary of War” as a “secondary title” under Executive Order  14347 , dated September 5,
2025) t o submit to Congress an “annual report on the military power of Iran.” Congress has modified  this
Congressional Research Service  3
IN12665  · VERSION 1 · NEW  requirement, including by directing the Secretary to provide ad ditional information about Iran’s nuclear
and drone programs ( P.L. 119 -60, §1222(b)(4)). Congress may consult that report to determine whether or
not it should include additional information. Congress may consider directing the Pentagon to publish an
unclassified, public version of the report. Members could ask questions concerning the above topics
during threat assessment hearings.
Author Information
Paul K. Kerr
Specialist in Nonproliferation
Daniel M. Gettinger
Analyst in U.S. Defense Policy
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff
to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of
Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of
information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role.
CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United
States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However,
as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the
permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.