CRS Legal Sidebar
Prepared for Members and
Committees of Congress
Legal Sidebar i
Congressional Court Watcher : Circuit Splits
from January 2026
February 25, 2026
The U.S. Courts of Appeals for the thirteen “circuits ” issue thousands of precedential decisions each year.
Because relatively few of these decisions  are ultimately reviewed by the Supreme Court, the U.S. Courts
of Appeals are often the last word  on consequential legal questions. The federal appellate courts
sometimes reach different conclusions on the same issue of federal law, causing a “split”  among the
circuits  that leads to the nonuniform application of federal law among similarly situated litigants.
This Legal Sidebar discusses circuit splits that emerged or widened following decisions from January
2026 on matters relevant to Congress. The Sidebar does not address every circuit split  that developed or
widened during this period . Selected cases typically involve judicial disagreement over the interpretation
or validity of federal statutes and regulations, or constitutional issues relevant to Congress ’s lawmak ing
and oversight functions. The Sidebar includes only cases where an appellate court ’s controlling opinion
recognizes a split among the circuits on a key legal issue resolved in the opinion.  This Sidebar  refers to
each U.S. Court of Appeals by its number or descriptor (e.g., “D.C. Circuit” for “U.S. Court of Appeals
for the D.C. Circuit”).
Some cases identified in this Sidebar, or the legal questions they address, are examined in other CRS
general distribution products. Members of Congress and congressional staff may click here  to subscribe to
the CRS Legal Update  and receive regular notifications of new products and upcoming seminars by CRS
attorneys.
• Commerce:  In consolidated cases, the Ninth Circuit rejected challenges to residency
requireme nts in cannabis dispensary licensing schemes in Washington State and the City
of Sacramento, California. Both California and Washington state laws permit marijuana
sales for recreational and medicinal use, and the challenged licensing schemes allow only
state or city residents to hold dispensary licenses. Plaintiffs argued these requirements
discriminated against out -of-state businesses in violation of the dormant C ommerce
Clause , a judicial doctrine that construes the Commerce Clause to prohibit state laws that
unduly restrict interstate commerce , even in the absence of federal legislation . Observing
that the Supreme Court has urged caution in the doctrine’s  applica tion, the Ninth Circuit
held that it did not apply to the challenged residency requirements because medical and
recreational marijuana remain illegal under federal law . As such, according to the court,
Congressional Research Service
https://crsreports.congress.gov
LSB11399
Congressional Research Service  2
the challenged laws align ed with Congress’s efforts to eliminate interstate drug markets.
The Ninth Circuit’s conclusion diverges from the First and Second  Circuits, which have
held that the dormant Commerce Clause applies to state econom ic restrictions even if the
market is unlawful under federal law  (Peridot Tree WA, Inc. v. Washington State Liquor
& Cannabis Control Bd. ).
• Criminal Law & Procedure:  The Third Circuit held that a criminal defendant’s bare,
nonspecific  motion for acquittal under  Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 29  did not
preserve specific arguments for appellate review regarding whether the prosecution
presented sufficient evidence to sustain his convictions. The circuit panel observed that
its approach diverges from the D.C. , First, Second , Sixth , Seventh , and Ninth  Circuits,
which recognize that a broadly stated Rule 29 motion preserves such arguments on
appeal. Because the Third Circuit concluded that the defendant’s specific sufficiency -of-
the-evidence claims were not preserved on appeal and therefore were not subject to de
novo  review, the court instead reviewed the defendant ’s insufficiency claims under the
stringent plain -error standard and found no reversible error ( United States v. Abrams ).
• Firearms:  A Fifth Circuit  panel vacated a criminal defendant ’s conv iction under  18
U.S.C. § 922(g)(1)  for possessing a firearm as a convicted felon, holding that the statute
violated the Second Amendment as applied to the defendant based on his  prior state-law
conviction  for simple possession of methamphetamine. The pa nel concluded that
permanently prohibiting firearm  possession  based on this defendant ’s illegal possession
of methamphetamine was inconsistent with the Second Amendment because the
prohibition was not sufficiently analogous to historical restrictions on  firearm  possession
by dangerous or intoxicated individuals.  The court acknowledged widespread
disagreement among the appellate courts over how to apply the Supreme Court’s history -
based framework set forth in New York State Rifle & Pistol Association v. Bruen  to assess
the compatibility of firearm restrictions with the Second Amendment, including with
respect to Section 922(g)(1). The panel observed that  an earlier Fifth Circuit opinion
identified the Second , Fourth , Eighth , Ninth , Tenth , and Eleventh  Circuits as upholding
the constitutionality of Section 922(g)(1) as applied to all felons. The panel also
recognized  disagreement among  those courts t hat hold that  a criminal defendant’s
dangerousness must be assessed to determine whether he may, consistent with the Second
Amendment,  be permanently disarmed under Section 922(g)(1 ). The Third  and Sixth
Circuits  consider bo th felony and misdemeanor histories in assessing dangerousness,
while the Fifth Circuit’s analysis of dangerousness focuse s exclusively on  the predicate
felony convictions giving rise to the Section 922(g)(1) violation (United States v.
Hembree ).
• Firearms:  A divided Ninth Circuit panel held that California’s ban on open carry of
firearms in urban areas violate d the Second Amendment, while its licensing regime for
rural areas —requi ring permits for individuals expressing a general desire for self -
defense —survive d a facial constitutional challenge. The majority emphasized that open
carry was historically the default lawful method of firearm carriage, with no evidence of
outright bans at the time of the Founding. Applying the history -based framework set forth
by the Supreme Court in Bruen  to assess a firearms restriction’s compatibility with the
Second Amendment, the panel concluded that open carry is clearly protected by the
Second Amendment and that California’s urban ban is unconstitutional. The Ninth Circuit
criticized the Second Circuit’s approach , which permits the government to ban either
open or concealed carry provided that at least one of the tw o form s of public carry
remain s available. The Ninth Circuit contended that such reasoning rested on a
misreading of Bruen  and was inconsistent with the historic al tradition of allowing open
Congressional Research Service  3
carry. The panel also upheld California’s rural licensing regime  on its face , characterizing
Bruen  as indicating that licensing schemes a re permissible when , as here, a permit shall
be issued when the request is  based on a general desire for self -defense ( Baird v. Bonta ).
• Immigration:  In a per curiam opinion, a divided Third Circuit panel held that a lthough a
federal district court retained habeas jurisdiction over an alien detained by the federal
government, the court lacked subject ma tter jurisdiction to consider the alien’s claims
challenging the lawfulness of his detention and removability. Federal c ourts exercising
habeas jurisdi ction  typically may review the legality of an individual ’s incarceration.
Under 8 U.S.C. § 1252(b)(9) , “[j]udicial review of all questions of law and fact , including
interpretation and application of constitutional and statutory provisions, arising from any
action  taken or proceeding brought to remove an alien from the United States shall be
available only” as part of a federal appeals court’s consideration  of a petition  for review
(PFR) of a final removal order. In this case, the government  argued that the alien was
removable from the United States on foreign policy  grounds  and for obtaining lawful
permanent resident status through fraud or willful misrepresentation , and he was arrested
and detained pending removal proceedings. Before those proceedings were completed,
the alien sought habeas relief, claiming that his detention and placement in removal
proceedings constituted unlawful retaliation for engaging in protected political speech
under the First Amendment. The panel majority held that Section 125 2(b)(9) stripped the
habeas court of subject matter jurisdiction to consider these claims because they involved
legal and factual questions that could ultimately be reviewe d by a federal appeals court
considering a PFR. The majority acknowledged that its ruling diverged from recent
decisions in similar cases by other courts —including published  opinions  from the  Second
Circuit —holding  that Section 125 2(b)(9) does not prevent aliens from ch allenging, in
habeas proceedings, the underlying basis for their removability and detention prior to the
issuance of a removal order ( Khalil v. President ).
• Immigration:  The Fourth Circuit affirmed a defendant’s criminal convictions and
sentence for fraudulently preparing immigration visa petitions under the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994  (V AWA).  The petition  applications  submitted to the government
included fraudulent or forged supporting documents, but the defendant had not signed the
applications and therefore did not certify under penalty of perjury the ir accuracy. The
Fourth Ci rcuit upheld the defendant’s convictions under multiple  fraud -related statutes,
including paragraph four of 18 U.S.C. § 1546(a) , which imposes criminal penalties on a
person who  “knowingly make s under oath, or as permitted under penalty of perjury …
knowingly subscribe s as true, any false statement with respect to a m aterial fact in any …
document required by the immigration laws or regulations prescribed thereunder, or
knowingly present s any such … document which contains any such false statement.”
Aligning with the Second Circuit  but s plitting with the Third Circuit , the pa nel held that
the oath requirement in Section 1546(a) applies only to the “knowingly makes” offense
listed in that paragraph, and not to other listed offenses including the “knowingly
presents” offense with which the defendant was charged ( United States v. Aborisade ).
Congressional Research Service  4
Author Information
Michael John Garcia
Deputy Assistant Director/ALD
Congressional Research Service  5
LSB11399  · VERSION 2 · NEW
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff
to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of
Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of
information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role.
CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United
States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However,
as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the
permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.