CRS Legal Sidebar
Prepared for Members and
Committees of Congress
Legal Sidebar i
The United States’  Prosecution of Nicolás
Maduro Moros: United States v. Maduro
March 4, 2026
Following the seizure  of Nicolás Maduro Moros (Maduro) by U.S. armed forces  in Caracas, Venezuela,
on January 3, 2026, a superseding indictment  charging him and other defendants with narco -terrorism,
narcotics, and weapons offenses was unsealed in the U.S. District  Court for the Southern District of New
York ( SDNY ). The January 2026 indictment supersedes an indictment  filed against Maduro in the SDNY
in March 2020. This Legal Sidebar describes the charges in the January 2026 indictment  and analy zes
potentially relevant precedent  that may govern this case , including the judicial  opinions arising  out of the
United States’ prosecution of Pana ma’s military leader Manuel Noriega for drug trafficking offenses in
the 1990s.  This Sidebar then discusses some considerations for Congress.
The Charges in the January 2026 Indictment
The January 2026 indictment names  Maduro and five other defendants: Cilia Adela Flores de Maduro
(Maduro’s wife), Diosdado Cabello Rondon and Ramon Rodriguez Chacin (current and former high -
ranking Venezuelan gove rnment officials and politicians), Nicolás Ernesto Maduro Guerra (Maduro’s
son), and Hector Rusthenford Guerrero Flores  (identified in the indictment as the alleged leader of Tren
de Aragua (TdA), a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO)  as designated  by the State Department under 8
U.S.C. § 1189  in February 2025 ). The indictment charges  Maduro, Rondon, and Chacin with narco -
terrorism conspiracy in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 960a , and all five defendants are charged  with conspiracy
to import cocaine into the United States and weapons possession offenses.
The first count  alleges narco -terrorism conspiracy in violation of 21 U.S.C.  § 960a,  which  prohibits
engaging in certain drug trafficking offenses , or attempting or conspiring to do so, “ knowing or intending
to provide, directly or indirectly, anything of pecuniary value to any person or organizatio n that has
engaged or engages in terrorist activity  ... or terrorism .” The indictment alleges  that Maduro and the two
Venezuelan government officials named as defendants conspired to  distribute and possessed with intent to
distribute cocaine to support TdA and other organizations designated as FTOs by the State Department
under 8 U.S.C. §  1189 .
The second count  is conspiracy to import cocaine into the United States in violat ion of 21 U.S.C.  §§
952(a)  (importin g controlled substances in Schedule I or II or narcotic drugs in Schedule III, IV or V  of
Congressional Research Service
https://crsreports.congress.gov
LSB11401
Congressional Research Service  2
the Controlled Substances Act ); 959(a)  (manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance for the
purpose of unlawful importation) ; 959(c)  (possession, manufacture, or distribution of a controlled
substance by a person on board an aircraft) ; 960(a)(1)  (knowing or intentional import or export of a
controlled substance) ; 960(a)(3)  (manufacture, possession with intent to distribute , or distribut ion of  a
controlled substance) ; 960(b)(1)(B)  (certain unlawful acts involving threshold amounts of cocaine ); and
963 (conspiracy ). The specific acts that the indictment alleges the defendants took in furtherance of the
narco -terrorism and drug trafficking conspiracies  include  providing drug traffickers with diplomatic
passports , private planes under diplomatic cover , and armed military escorts .
The third count  alleges that the defendants used and carried machineguns and destructi ve devices in
furtherance of drug trafficking crimes that are prosecutable in a U.S. court , in violation of 18 U.S.C. §
924(c)(1)(A)  and (c)(1)(B)(ii) .
The fourth count  also alleges that the defendants conspired to possess machineguns and dest ructive
devices in furtherance of and  in relation to the narcotics offenses alleged in counts one and two, in
violation of 18 U.S.C. §  924(c)(1)(A) and (c)(1)(B)(ii).
Relevant Historical  Precedent
As this case progresses, there are a number of issues that may arise, including whether the indictment
should be dismissed based on  issues regarding immunity from prosecution or regarding the seizure and
transfer of Maduro and his wife to the United States. The case against f ormer military leader Manuel
Noriega raised similar issues. The SDNY may consider  the judicial opinions that arose out  of Noriega’s
case—which was heard in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida  and appeal ed to the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit  (Eleventh Circuit) —to be  persuasive, but those opinions
typically are not considered  binding or controlling  in other federal circuits such as the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit  (Second Circuit) , which has appellate jurisdiction over the SDNY .
Head-of-state Immunity
Head -of-state immunity is a status -based immunity doctrine  that prohibits c riminal and civil cases against
current  heads of state in U.S. courts —that is, immunity applies only while the defendant is in office .
Courts have  often deferred  to the executive branch  to determine  whether a defendant is a head of state, as
the district and appellate  courts did in the Noriega case . The district court concluded  that Noriega had
“never be en recognized  as Panama’s Head of State either under the Panamanian Constitution or by the
United States, ” and rejected  Noriega’s claims that he was entitled to immunity as the de facto rule r of
Panama.  The Eleventh Circuit affirmed,  conclud ing with deference to the executive branch that Noriega
was not entitled to h ead-of-state immunity . The January 2026 indictment against Maduro states  that he
“was previously the Presi dent of Venezuela, and is now, having remained in power despite losses in recent
elections, the de facto but illegitimate ruler of the country .”
Immunity for Official Acts
In contrast to head -of-state immunity, immunity for official acts  is a conduct -based  doctrine rather than a
status -based one —meaning it may protect defendants  from prosecution for past official acts  even  if they
do not currently hold a  head -of-state or other governmental office . In determining whether defendants  are
entitled to this type immunity, courts assess whether  the “claims arise [] out of their official acts while in
office,” or instead out of “ private acts  where the officer purports to act as an individual and not as an
official .” In determining  whether a current or former official is entitled to conduct -based immunity, courts
may give some deference  to the executive branch’s position. Unlike status -based head -of-state immunity,
which precludes courts’ exercise of jurisdiction over a defendant entirely, this c onduct -based immunity
Congressional Research Service  3
doctrine applies only  to those acts deemed to be “official,” and the case may proceed with respect to any
acts that a court determines to have been undertaken in a private capacity.
In rejecting  an argument  made by Noriega  based on a doctrine  similar to immunity for official acts , the
district court explained  that “[t]he inquiry is not whether Noriega used his official position to engage in
the challenged acts, but whether those acts were taken on behalf of Noriega instead of Panama. ”
Additionally, courts have suggested  that some criminal acts, “such as drug possession or fraud ,” are not
normally “attributable to the state” and therefore  will be  treated as private acts for which no immunity is
available.
Challenges Regarding  the Legality of the Seizure
Noriega argued  that his seizure  and transfer to the United States as part of the U.S. military invasion of
Panama merited dismissal  of the charges lodged against him  because these actions violated international
law and his right to substantive due process under the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.  With
respect to international law , Noriega argued  that his seizure  violated various international treaties and
principles of customary international law, including Article 2(4) of the United Nations (U.N.) Charter , a
Senate -approved treaty that prohibits  the threat or use of force against  the sovereign territory of another
country without its consent , except in the limited circumstances of self-defense against an armed attack or
U.N. Security Council authorization . To dismiss the case, the  district  court required  Noriega to establish
that the treaty in question was “self -executing in the sense that it confers individual rights upon citizens of
the signatory nations” and that the terms of the treaty contain “a self -imposed limitation on the
jurisdiction  of the United States and hence on its courts.”
A few months before U.S. armed forces invaded Panama  and seized  Noriega in December 1989 , the
Department of Justice’s Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) issued an opinion in June 1989 arguing  that the
President has “inherent ” constitutional authority to undertake extraterritorial law enforcement activities
without congressional authorization , even if those act ivities are contrary to the U.N. Charter  or customary
international law . (Although OLC opinions are legal arguments and not binding  on courts or Congress,
the executive branch has historically treated  them as internally controlling .) In reaching this conclusion,
the OLC pointed out  that it did not interpret any statutes as prohibiting the President from conducting law
enforcement activities in contravention of customary international law . Along similar lines , the OLC
based  its conclusion that the President had unilateral constitutional authority to undertake law
enforcement actions in violation  of the U.N. Charter  on the OLC’s determination t hat this treaty is not
self-executin g, and accordingly Congress  “must execute [it] before it can become a rule” enforceable in
U.S. court s.
The district court in Noriega’s  case did not address the issue regarding the President’s inherent
constitutional authority  and, instead, determined  that the treaties in question did not create, either
expressly or impliedly, an enforceable private right of action  giving Noriega standing to challenge
violations of such treaties. The court  further reasoned  that Noriega’s claim should be rejected because  the
court concluded  that Supreme Court caselaw  has held that  “violations of international law alone do not
deprive a court of jurisdiction over a defendant in the absence of specific treaty language to that effect.”
As a result, the court explained  that it was unnecessary to “ reach the question of whether [international
law] was  violated by the United States military ac tion in Panama .”
In a memorandum  written on December 23, 2025 , assessing the legality of the United States’ then -
proposed military operation in Venezuela, the OLC relied on its 1989 opinio n in arguing  that it was
“unnecessary to address the issue” of whether the planned operation would compl y with international law
because “ [i]nternational law  ... does not restr ict the President as a matter of domestic law. ” The OLC
further  argued  that the President had inherent authority under Article II of the Constitution to conduct the
military operation in the absence of congressional authorization  in order to seize Maduro. (For further
Congressional Research Service  4
discussion of the President’s inherent authority under  Article II of the Constitution  and its potential
implications for congressional authority , see CRS Report R48524, Congress and the Scope of the
President’ s Article II Foreign Policy Authorities , by Karen Sokol .)
The district court also rejected  Noriega’s argument that his seizure by U.S. forces was so “shocking to the
conscience” as to amount to a violation o f his Fifth Amendment right to substantive due process  and thus
required dismissal , a ruling upheld  by the Eleventh Circuit on appeal.  In upholding the district’s court’s
conclusion, the Eleventh Circuit explained  that under the Supreme Court’s Ker-Frisbie doctrine —which
is named after two of the Court’s cases —the way in which a defendant was brought before a court does
not impact the court’s jurisdic tion over the defendant.  In both cases, the Supreme Court held that “ the
power of a court to try a person for crime is not impaired by the fact that he had been brought within the
court ’s jurisdiction by reason of a forcible abduction. ”
The Eleventh Circuit rejected Noriega’s argument that his seizure fell within an exception to the Ker-
Frisbie doctrine  recognized by the Second Circuit  that permits  defendant s to defeat a court’s jurisdiction
on grounds of a due process violation by  establishing that their seizure involved not merely a “simply
illegal” abduction , but rather “cruel, inhuman and outrageous treatment .” Without deciding whether it also
recognized such an  exception, the Eleventh Circuit determined  that Noriega’s seizure did not meet that
standard because he “has not al leged that the government mistreated him personally ,” and “whatever
harm Panamanian civilians suffered during the armed conflict that preceded Noriega ’s arrest cannot
support a due process claim .”
The Eleventh Circuit also relied on Supreme Court caselaw in rejecting Noriega’s claim that he should not
have been tried because his seizure violated the extradition treaty between the United States and Panama.
In United States v. Alvarez -Machain , the Supreme Court held that, because the United States’  extradition
treaty with Mexico did not prohibit forcible abductions, the Ker-Frisbie doctrine governed , and the court
had jurisdiction to try the defendant notwithstanding that he was forcibly abducted from Mexico by U. S.
law enforcement officials . According to the Eleventh Circuit, Noriega similarly failed  to “demonstrate , by
reference to the express language of a treaty and/or the established practice thereunder,  that the United
States affirmatively agre ed not to seize foreign nationals from the territory of its treaty partners, ” and
accordingly the district court’s exercise of jurisdiction over him was proper  under the Ker-Frisbie  rule.
In its December 2025 opinion  on the prospective  Venezuela military o peration, the OLC  also relied on the
Supreme Court ’s Ker-Frisbie doctrine in arguing  that, even if the operation “were to exceed  the
President ’s constitutional authority to or der the use of force ,” Maduro would not succeed in challenging
his prosecution  on those grounds . The federal district court in New York hearing Maduro’s case and, if
there is an appeal, the Second Circuit, are not bound by the Eleventh Circuit’s reading of Supreme Court
precedent  or its analysis of  Second Circuit case s regarding an exception to the Ker-Frisbie doctrine .
Considerations for Congress
The court proceedings and any judicial opinions in United States  v. Maduro  may have implications for
Congress’s legislative and oversight authorities. Accordingly, as it examines developments in the case,
Congress may consider a variety of actions.
For example, immunity as a head of state or for official acts , which may be asserted  by current or former
foreign government official s, is governed by federal common law —that is, judge-made —doctrines, under
which courts often give some level of deference  to the executive branch on the question of whether the
official is entitled to immunity. That was also the case with  the doctrine governing  foreign state  immunity
in civil cases  until 197 6, when Congress enacted  the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA)  (codified
at 28 U.S.C. §§ 1602‒11 ). The FSIA provides  courts with a statutorily -delineated set of legal standards  to
apply in determini ng whether  a foreign  state is immune from the jurisdiction  of U.S. courts  in civil cases .
Congressional Research Service  5
LSB11401  · VERSION 2 · NEW   Congress may consider whether to permit courts to continue applying federal common law to claims of
immunity by current or former foreign officials or whether to  codify legal standards for courts to apply in
assessing such cla ims in civil or criminal case s.
Additionally, Congress may engage in oversight and consider how the executive branch is conducting
extraterritorial law enforcement activities that result in a seizure. As discussed  in its  December 2025
opinion on the Venezuela military operation, the O LC maintained that  the President ha d unilateral
inherent constitutional authority to conduct the Venezuela operation using armed forces  and to seize
Maduro for law enforcement purposes , even if his seizure violate s international law  because
“[i]nternational law  ... does not restrict the President as a matter of domestic la w ... when it comes to
extraordinary rendition .” The OLC further argued  that, even if the ope ration exceeded the President’s
constitutional authority to order the use of force , that would not impact the ability of the United States to
prosecute Maduro because  the exercise of  jurisdiction  by U.S. courts  would nevertheless be proper under
Supreme Co urt precedent . Congress may consider the implications these claims of authority  may have for
Congress’s own authority,  and whether to seek further information from the executive branch regarding
its position on the scope of the President’s Article II autho rity to conduct , without congressional
authorization , military operations that it claims are in support of law enforcement.
In addition to oversight measures , Congress may consider legislation  similar to what was introduced  in
the 110 th Congress that would restrict the President’s authority  to seize individuals  abroa d. There are also
some treaties  where  the Senate has specified  in its resolutions consenting to the President’s ratification
that certain  treaty provisions are not self -executing , and Congress has enacted legislation  making  aspects
of treaties  or customary international law  enforceable by U.S. courts. While any legislation impacting
courts’ jurisdiction may change any common -law rules made by courts, it would have to be  consistent
with any requirements  that courts determine  to be constitutionally based .
Author Information
Karen Sokol
Legislative Attorney
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff
to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of
Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of
information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role.
CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United
States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However,
as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the
permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.