Northern Ireland: The Peace Process,  Ongoing
Challenges , and U.S. Interests
Updated March 5, 2026
Congressional Research Service
https://crsreports.congress.gov
R46259
Congressional Research Service
SUMMARY
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing
Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Between  1969  and 1999, roughly  3,500 peop le died as a result of poli tical violence in Nort hern
Ireland, which is one of four component “nations” of  the United Kingdom  (UK). Often referred
to as “the Troubles,” the conflict has its origins in the 1921 division of Ireland . At its core, the
conflict has reflected a  struggle b etween the different national, cultural, and religious identities  of
Northern Ireland’s two dominant communities: unionists , or Protestants who largely define
themselves as British and support Northern Ireland’s continued incorporation in the UK, and natio nalists , or Catholics who
consider themselves Irish and may favor a united Ireland.
Successive U.S. A dministrations and many  Members of Congress have actively support ed the Northern Ireland peace
process . U.S. development aid provided through the International Fund for Ireland (IFI)  has sought to encourage economic
development and reconciliation . Congressional hearings have focused on the pea ce process, human r ights, and addressing
Northern Ireland’s legacy of violence (often termed dealing with th e past ). Some Members have expressed  interest in  how
Brexit —the UK’s withdrawal as a member of the European Union (EU) in January 2020 —is affect ing Northern Ireland.
The Peace Agreement: Progress to Date and Ongoing Challenges
In 1998, the UK and Irish gov ernments and key  Northern Ire land political parties reached a  negotiated political settlement.
The resulting Good Friday Agreement, or Belfast Agre ement,  recognized that a change in Northern Ireland’s constitutional
status as part of the UK can come about only with the consent of a majority of the people in  Northern Ireland (as well as with
the consent of a majority in  Ireland). The agreement called for devolved government —the transfer of specified power s from
London to Belfast —with a Northern Ireland A ssem bly and Executive in which unionist and nationalist parties would share
power. It also contained provisions on decommissioning (disarmament)  of paramilitary weapons , policing, human rights, UK
security normalization (demilitarization ), and the status of prisoners.
Despite a mu ch-improved security situation since 1998 , implementing the p eace agreement  proved challen ging. In 2007, the
pro-British  Democratic Unionist Party (DUP ) and Sinn Fein, the  nationalist  political party traditionally associated with  the
Irish Republican Army (IRA), reached a landmark power -sharing deal.  Tensions and distrust persisted , however , and Brexit
and other contentious issues have hindered the functioning of Northern Ireland’s government. Assembly elections took place
in M ay 2022 , but the DUP blocked the work of the Assembly and prevented the formation of a new Executive to protest the
post-Brexit arrangements for Northern Irelan d, which the  DUP and other unionists  viewed as dividing Northern Ireland from
the rest of the UK  and th reatening the UK’s constitutional integrity.  In January 2024, the DUP accepted a package of
measures proposed by the UK government to address Brexit -related concerns and ended its boycott on Northern Ireland’s
power -sharing institutions, paving the way for  the devolved government to be reestablished in February 2024.  Other  issue s
facing Northern Ireland  in its search for peac e and reconciliation include  reducing sectarian divisions , dealing with the past ,
addressing lingering concerns about paramilitary and dissident activity,  and promotin g further economic development.
Brexit and Northern Ireland
Since 1998, as security checkpoints were dismantled in accordance with the peace agreement and because both th e UK and
Ireland belonged to the EU single market and customs  union, the land bor der on the island of  Ireland effectively disappeared ,
helping to promote peace  and a dynamic cross -border economy.  To retain this open border while respecting the rules  of the
EU single market  and customs union , the UK and the EU agreed to post -Brexit trade and customs arrangements for Northern
Ireland  (initially  contained in a Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland  to the UK’s withdrawal agreement with the EU ).
Implementation of  the post-Brexit arrangements —which began in January 2021 —led to some trade disruptions between
Northern Ireland and the rest of the UK  and exacerbated political and societal tensions  in Northern Ireland . The subsequent
2023 Windsor Framework agreed betwee n the UK and the EU and the aforementioned  2024 UK -DUP agreement sought to
address DUP concerns about the post -Brexit arrangements  and reduce tensions . Brexit  also has renewed debate about
Northern Ireland’ s constitutional status  and has prompted calls from Sinn Fein and others for a border poll , or referendum, on
whether Northern Ireland should remain part of the UK  or join Ireland . R46259
March 5, 2026
Kristin Archick
Section Research Manager
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service  Contents
Overview  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  1
The 1998 Peace Agreement  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  2
Key Elements  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............................  2
Implementation  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........................  3
Democratic Power -Sharing Institutions  ................................ ................................ ..............  3
Decommissioning  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............  4
Policing  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  4
Security Normaliz ation  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 5
Rights, Safeguards, and Equality of Opportunity  ................................ ...............................  5
Political Developments  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................  6
The May 2022 Assembly Election  ................................ ................................ ............................  6
2024 Reestablishment of the Devolved Government  ................................ ................................  8
Ongoing Challenges in the Peace Process  ................................ ................................ .......................  8
Sectarian Divisions  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................  9
Dealing with the Past  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............  10
The Northern Ireland Troubles (Legacy and Reconciliation) Act 2023  .............................  11
Efforts to Repeal and Replace the 2023 Legacy Act  ................................ .........................  12
Remaining Paramilitary Issues and Dissident Activity  ................................ ...........................  13
Economic Development and Equal Opportunity  ................................ ................................ .... 14
Implications of Brexit  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................  15
The Irish Border and Post -Brexit Arrangements  ................................ ................................ ..... 16
The Northern Ireland Protocol and Implementation Challenges  ................................ ...... 17
The 2023 Windsor Framework and the 2024 UK -DUP Deal  ................................ ...........  18
Economic Concerns  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................  20
Constitutional Status and Border Poll Prospects  ................................ ................................ ..... 21
U.S. Policy and Congressional Interests  ................................ ................................ ........................  23
Support for the P eace Process  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 23
Views on Brexit’s Implications for Northern Ireland  ................................ ..............................  25
International Fund for Ireland  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 25
Figures
Figure 1. Map of Northern Ireland (UK) and the Republic of Ireland  ................................ ............  2
Tables
Table 1. Northern Ireland 2022 Election Results  ................................ ................................ ............  7
Contacts
Author Information  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................  26
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   1 Overview
Between 1969 and 1999, roughly  3,500 people died as a result of political violence in Northern
Ireland, which is a part of the United Kingdom  (UK) . The conflict, often referred to as “the
Troubles ,” has its modern origins in the 1921 division of Ireland  (see map in  Figure 1).1 At its
core, the conflict has reflect ed a struggle between the different national, cultural, and religious
identities  of Northern Ireland’s  two dominant communities: unionists , or Prot estants who largely
define themselves as British and  support Northern Ireland’s continued incorporation in the UK,
and nationalists , or Catholics who consider themselves Irish and may favor a united Ireland. In
the past, more militant unionists ( loyalists ) and more militant nationalists ( republicans ) were
willing to use force  to achieve their goals.2 Results from the 2021 census indicate that for the first
time in Northern Ireland’s history, more people in Northern Ireland are from a Catholic
background (4 5.7% of the population) than from a Protestant or other Christian background
(43.5% of the population) .3
The Troubles were  sparked in 1968, when a civil rights movement was launched in Northern
Ireland mo stly by Catholics, who had long faced discrimination in areas such as electoral rights,
housing, and employment. This civil rights movement was met with violence by some unio nists,
loyalists, and the police, which in turn prompted armed action by nationalists and republicans.
Increasing chaos and escalating violence led the UK government to deploy the British Army on
the streets of Northern Ireland in 1969 and to impose direct  rule f rom London in 1972 (between
1921  and 1972, Northern Ireland had its own regional governm ent).
For years, the UK  and Irish governments sought to facilitate a negotiated political settlement  to
the conflict . Multiparty talks began in June 1996 , led by  former Senate Majority Leader George
Mitchell, who was serving as U.S. President Bill Clinton ’s special adviser on Ireland . The UK
and Irish  governments and the Northern Ireland political parties participating in the peace talks
announced an agreement on April 10, 1998.  This accord became known as the Good Friday
Agreement  (for the day on which it was concluded); it is also known as the Belfast Agreement .4
Despite the significant decrease in the levels of violence since the Good Friday Agreement,
implemen tation of the peace accord proved  challenging. Tension s and distrust persist  among
Northern Ireland ’s political parties and between the unionist and nationalist communities more
broadly. Northern Ireland continues to grapple with a number of issues in its search for peace and
reconciliation. Sectarian differences  flare periodically , and a ddressing Northern Ireland ’s legacy
of violence (often termed dealing with the past ) is particularly controversial. The UK ’s
1 In 1921, the mostly Catholic, southern part of Ireland won independen ce from the United Kingdom (UK), resulting in
the establishment of the Irish Free State in 1922 within the British Commonwealth . The Irish government formally
declared Ireland a republic in 1948 and severed its remaining constitutional links with the UK. The Republic of Ireland ,
with a population of rough ly 5.2 million,  consists of 26 counties a nd encompasses  about five -sixths of the island of
Ireland; Northern Ireland , with approximately 1.9 million people,  comprises six counties and encompasses the
remaining one -sixth of the island.
2 Many unionists and loyalists refer to the six counties that today make up Northern Ireland as Ulster . Technically and
historically, Ulster also includes the three northernmost counties of the Republic of Ireland.
3 Northern Ireland Statistics and Research  Agency  Census 2021 , “Main Statistics for Northern Ireland : Religion,”
Statistical Bulletin, September 22, 2022, https://www.nisra.gov.uk/ system/ files/ statistics/ census -2021 -main -statistics -
for-northern -ireland -phase -1-statistical -bulletin -religion.pdf .
4 The text of the Good Friday Agreement (or Belfast Agreement) may be found at http://cain.ulst.ac.uk/ events/ peace/
docs/ /agreement.htm . The unionist/Protestant community tends to use the term Belfast Agreement, viewing the name
Good Friday Agreement as biased in favor of the n ationalist/Catholic community. For the purposes of this report, the
peace accord is referred to as the Good Friday Agreement, because this is the name more widely used and recognized
in the United States.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   2 withdrawal from the European Union  (EU) in  2020 —or Brexit —has added to divisions within
Northern Ireland , renewed questions about Northern Ireland’s constitutional status as part of the
UK, and contributed to political instability in the power -sharing institutions. In January 2024,
Northern Ireland’s leading unionist party accepted new measures proposed by the UK
government to address certain Brexit -related concerns, thereby enabling Northern Ireland’s
devolved government to be re established  in February 2024 after a two-year suspension .
Successive U.S. Administrations and many Me mbers of Congress have supported the Northern
Ireland peace process and have encouraged full implementation of the Good Friday Agreement,
as well as subsequent accords and initiatives.  The Uni ted States has provided aid through the
International Fund for Ireland (IFI), which was created in 1986 to encourage economic
development and foster reconciliation.  Some Members  of Congress  have been particularly
interested in police reforms and human righ ts in Northern Ireland. Some Members of Congress
also have demonstrated  an interest in Brexit’s implications for  Northern Ireland .
Figure 1. Map of Northern Ireland (UK) and the Republic of Ireland
Source: Graphic created by CRS using data from Esri (2017).
The 1998 Peace Agreement
Key Elements
The Good Friday Agreement is a multilayered and interlocking document, consisting of a political
settlement reached by Northern Ireland ’s political parties and an international treaty b etween the
UK and Irish governments. At the core of th e Good Friday Agreement is the consent principle —
that is, a change in Northern Ireland ’s status can  come about only with the consent of the majority
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   3 of Northern Ireland’s people, as well as with the c onsent of a majority in Ireland . Although the
agreement acknowledged that a substantial section of Northern Ireland’s  population and a
majority on the island desired a united Ireland, it recognized that the majority of people in
Northern Ireland wished  to remain part of the UK. If the preference of this majority  were to
change, the agreement asserted that the UK  and Irish governments would have a binding
obligation to bring about the wish of the people; thus, the agreement included provisions for
future polls  to be held in Northern Ireland on its constitutional status , should events warrant.
The Good Friday Agreement set out a framework for devolved government —the transfer of
specified powers over local governance from London to Belfast —and called for establis hing a
Northern Ir eland Assembly and Executive  in which unionist and nationalist parties would share
power (known as Strand One ). The Good Friday Agreement  also contained provisions on  several
issues viewed as central to the peace process: decommissioning (disarmament)  of paramilitary
weapons , policing , human rights , UK security n ormalization (demilitarization) , and the stat us of
prisoners. Negotiations on many of these areas had been extremely contentious , and the final
agreed text thus reflected some degree of “constructive ambiguity .”
In addition, the Good Friday Agreement created new “North -South” and “East -West” institutions
(Strand Two  and Strand Three , respectively). A mong the key institutions called for in these two
strands, a  North -South  Ministe rial Council  was established to allow leaders in the northern and
southern parts of the island of Ireland to consult and cooperate on cross -border issues. A British -
Irish Council also was formed  to discuss matters of regional interest; the council  comp rises
representatives of the two governments and the devolved administrations of Northern Ireland,
Scotland, Wales, the Channel Islands, and the Isle of Man.
Implementation
Voters in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland approved the Good Friday Agreeme nt in
separa te referendums on May 22, 1998, but implementing  the agreement was difficult . For years,
decommissioning and police r eforms were key sticking points  that c ontributed to instability in
Northern Ireland’s  devolved government . Ongoing sectarian st rife and s poradi c violence from
dissident repub lican and loyalist groups that refused to accept the peace process also fed  mistrust
between the unionist and nationalist communities and their respective political parties .
Democratic Power-Sharing Institutions
As noted above, the Good Friday Agreement mandated  power -sharing in the devolved
government between unionists and nationalists and called for establishing a new Northern Ireland
Assembly and Executive . To ensure neither unionists nor nationali sts could dominate the
Assembly  (of 108 members at the time) , the agreement required that “key decisions” receive
cross -community support  (i.e., from a majority of both unionist and nationalist Assembly
members ). The Executive  would be composed of a first minister, deputy first minister, and other
ministers with departmental responsibilities ( e.g., health, education, jobs); positions would be
allocated to political parties according to  party strength in the Assembly.
The first elections to the new Norther n Ireland Assembly  took place on  June 25, 1998 . The
devolution of power from London to Belfast, however, was delayed by unionist concerns about
the status of weapons decommissioning . Following 18 months of further nego tiations, authority
over local affairs was transferred to the Northern Ireland Assembly and Executive in December
1999 . Over the n ext few years , the issue of decommissioning —especially by the  Irish Republican
Army  (IRA)—contributed  to the suspension  of the devolved government and the reinstatement of
direct rule  from London sever al times  between 2000 and 2002 . (See “Decommissioning ,” below .)
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   4 In 2007, after a nearly five -year suspension, Northern Ireland’s devolved government was
restored following a landmark deal between the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) —which
strongly supports Northern Ireland’s continued integration as part of th e UK —and Sinn Fein, the
staunchly nationalist political party traditionally associated with the IRA.  Regularly scheduled
Assembly elections in 2011 and 2016 produced successive power -sharing governments , also led
by the DUP and Sinn Fein.  At the same time,  various incidents —including protests in 2012 and
2013 over the use of flags and emblems and the 2015 arrest of a Sinn Fein leader in connection
with the murder of a former IRA member —periodically threatened the devolved government’s
stability.  Brexit and other contentious issues led to the collapse of the power -sharing institutions
between 2017 and 2020, and again between  2022  and 2024  (see “Political Developments” ).
Decommissioning
For years, decommissioning of paramilitary weapons was a prominent challenge in the
implementation of the Good Friday Agreement. The text of the agreement states , “those who hold
office should use only democratic, non -violent means, and those who do not should be excluded
or removed from office.” Unionists were adamant that the IRA must fully decommission its
weapons. The IRA had been observing a cease -fire since 1997, but it viewed decommissioning as
tantamount to surrender and  had long resisted such calls.
Progress toward  full IRA decommissioning was  slow and  incremental . A key milestone came  in
July 2005, when the IRA declar ed an end to its armed campaign  and instructed all members to
pursue objectives through “exclusively peaceful means .”5 In September 2005, Northern Ireland ’s
Independent International Commis sion on Decommissioning (IICD) announced that the IRA had
put all of its arms “beyond use, ” asserting that the IRA weaponry dismantled or made inoperable
matched estimates pr ovided by the security forces.6 The IICD also confirmed decommissioning
by other republican groups a nd loyalist organizations. The IICD concluded its work in 2011.
Policing
Although recognized as a central element in achieving a comprehensive peace in Northern
Ireland, new policing structures and arrangements  were  a frequent point of contention between
unionists and nationalists. In 2001, a new Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) was
established to replace the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) , Northern Ireland’s former, 92%
Protestant police force . Catholics  viewed the RUC  as an en forcer of Protestant domination , and
human rights organization s accused the RUC of brutality and collusion with loyalist paramilitary
groups. Defenders of the RUC pointed to its tradition of loyalty and discipline and its record in
fighting terrorism.  In accordance with policing recommendations made by an independent
commission (known as the Patten Commission) , increasing the proportion of Catholic officers
(from 8% to 30% in 10 years) was a key goal for the new PSNI. To help fulfill t his goal, the PSNI
introduced a 50-50 Catholic/Protestant recruitment process .7
For several years , Sinn Fein refused to participate in the  Policing Board, a democratic oversight
body  established as part of the police reforms . Many viewed Sinn Fein’s stanc e as discouraging
Catholics from joining the PSNI and preventing the nationalist community from fully accepting
the new PSNI . In 2007, however , Sinn Fein members voted to support the police and join the
Policing Board. Sinn Fein ’s decision  was seen  as hist oric, given the IRA ’s traditional view of the
5 “IRA Statement in Full,” BBC News, July 25, 2005.
6 Mark Davenport, “IRA Arms: What Next for NI Politics?,” BBC News , September 26, 2005.
7 See A New Beginning: Policing in Northern Ireland , Report of the Independent Commission on Policing for Northern
Ireland, September 1999, http://cain.ulst.ac.uk/ issues/ police/ patten/ patten99.pdf .
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   5 police as a legitimate target.  In 2010, the DUP and Sinn Fein reached an accord (the Hillsborough
Agreement) to devolve policing and justice powers from London to Belfast.  The 50 -50
recruitment process for Cath olic and Protestant PSNI  officers concluded  in 2011 .
According to the most recent data available , Catholic officers currently make up around 32% of
the PSNI’s nearly 6,300 officers.8 Concerns persist  that not enough Catholics ar e seeking to join
the PSNI  (due to  both lingering suspicions about the police within the Catholic/nationalis t
community and ongoing fears that C atholic police recruits may be targeted by  dissident
republicans  opposed to the peace process ). PSNI officials have warned that curren t overall
staffing levels are insufficient. In September 2024, the PSNI outlined a plan to increase the size of
the force to 7,000 officers by 2028 , although b udget constraints  reportedly have impacted
implementation . Sinn Fein also has called for a return  of the 50 -50 recruitment process, but the
DUP has expressed opposition t o a practice that it view s as discriminatory .9
Security Normalization
The Good Friday Agreement called for “as early a return as possible to normal security
arrangements in Northern Ireland,” including the removal of security installations. In February
2007, t he last of more than 100 armored watchtowers in Northern Ireland  was dismantled . In July
2007, the British A rmy ended its 38 -year-long military operation in Northern Ireland.  Although a
regular garrison of 5,000 British troops remain s based in Northern Ireland , British forces  no
longer have a role in policing and may be deployed worldwide.
Rights, Safeguards, and Equality of Opportunity
In accordance with the Good Friday Agreement ’s provisions related to human rights and equality,
the UK government incorporated the European Convention on Human Rights  (ECHR , an
internation al treaty of the Council of Europe10) into Northern Ireland law and established a
Human Rights Commission and a n Equality Commission for Northern Ireland.  Some nationalists
have continue d to press for more progress and have argue d that Northern Ireland nee ds its own
Bill of Rights . Consideration for a Bill of Rights was provided for in the Good Friday Agreement,
but the i ssue has long been controversial . Consensus  on the way forward —between unionists and
nationalists, a s well as  with the UK government —remains elusive.
The Good Friday Agreement also calls for tolerance of linguistic diversity in Northern Ireland and
support for the Irish language  (Gaelic) . Giving Gaelic  the same official status as English and calls
for a stand -alone Irish Lang uage Act  in Northern Ireland, however, were sensitive  issues for many
unionists. A 2020  deal to restore the power -sharing institutions included a compromise to
recognize Gaelic  as an official language  in Northern Ireland  and promote its use  while  also
protecting the Ulster -Scots language (a regional language similar to English  that many unionists
consider important to their heritage ). In October  2022, the UK P arliament approved legislation
enacting  the language and cultural measures agreed in 2020 into law .11
8 Police Service of Northern Ireland, see Strength of Police Service Statistics  and Workforce Composition Statistics ,
both updated regularly,  https://www.psni.police.uk/ about -us/our-publications -and-reports/ our-publication -scheme/ who-
we-are-and-what -we-do.
9 Julian O’Ne ill, “PSNI Numbers at Watershed Moment —Chief Constable,” BBC News, September 17, 2024;  Daniel
Hennessy, “PSNI Chief Warns of ‘Dangerously Low’ Numbers in Force,” Irish Times , December 1, 2025 ; Jayne
McCormack, “Sinn Fein Calls for Return to 50 -50 Police Recruitment,” BBC News, February 23, 2026.
10 The UK is a party to the ECHR as a member of the Council of Europe, a leading European human rights body that
the UK helped found in 1949. The Council of Europe is an entirely separate organization from t he EU.
11 The Identity and Language (Northern Ireland) Act 2022 received royal assent in December 2022 .
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   6 Political Developments
Many analysts view implementation of the m ain aspects of the Good  Friday Agreement (and
subsequent agreements) as  having been completed. At the same time, tensions and distrust have
persist ed between the unionist and nationalist communities and their respective political parties.
Since 2007, Assembly elections have resulted in successive power -sharing governments led by
the DUP and Sinn Fein  (respectively , the largest unionist and nationalist parties in Northern
Ireland since 2003) . Brexit and other contentious issues since 2016 have affected the stability of
Northern Ireland’s power -sharing institutions, which collaps ed between 2017 and 2020, and again
between 2022 and  2024  (also see, “Implications of Brexit,” below).
The May 2022 Assembly Election
In February 2022, then -First Minister Paul Givan of the DUP resigned to protest the post -Brexit
trade and customs arrangements for Northern Ireland  and the slow progress in resolving
implementation difficulties . Contained in a protocol to the UK’s withdrawal agreement with the
EU (formally approved by the UK and EU in January  2020) , the post -Brexit arrangements for
Northern Ireland were designed to maintain an open border on the island of Ireland and to help
preserve the peace process while respecting the rules of the EU single market and customs union.
Under terms set out in the protocol, Northern Ireland remain ed legally in the UK customs
territory bu t practically aligned with EU single market  rules for goods. Although the DUP backed
Brexit (it was the only major Northern Ireland political party to do so), the DUP and other
unionists  viewed  the terms in the protoc ol as dividing  Northern Ireland from the rest of the UK
(i.e., Great Britain)  and threatening the UK’s constitutional integrity. Implementation of the
protocol —which began in January 202 1—also led to some trade disruptions between Northern
Ireland and Grea t Britain.
Givan ’s resignation as First Minister forced then-Deputy First Minister Michelle O’Neill , of Sinn
Fein, to step down. Northern Ireland’s  first minister and deputy first m inister positions are
considered a joint office; if one resigns, the other also ceases to hold office.  As a result, the
Northern Ireland Executive was unable to meet or  make decisions ( the Northern Ireland
Assembly was able to continue working on legislation already in progress ).12
Northern Ireland’s r egularly scheduled Assembly  election  was held on May 5, 2022.  For the first
time in Northern Ireland’s history, Sinn Fein won the largest number of seats in the 90 -member
Assembly and surpassed the DUP  as the largest party in the Assembly  (see Table 1).13 Decreased
support for the DUP appear ed to be driven by dissatisfaction with the party’s leadership on Brexit
and internal party divisions. Sinn Fein  strongly support s a united Ireland but  centered its election
campaign on everyday concerns, such as the rising cost s of living and health care.  The smaller,
cross -community Alliance Party made significant gains, attributed to voter frustration wi th
Northern Ireland’s identity politics and frequent instability in the power -sharing institutions.14
Voter turnout was 63%. (Also see text box, “Main Political Parties in Northern Ireland,” below .)
12 Jayne McCormack, “Givan Resignation Triggers Fresh Political Crisis in NI,” BBC News, February 3, 2022.
13 The Good Friday Agreement established a 108 -member Assembly, but the 2015 Fresh Start Agreement reduced the
size of the Assembly to 90 members (effective after the May 2016 Assembly election) , among other in itiatives . The
Fresh Start Agreement is available at https://www.gov.uk/ government/ news/ a-fresh -start-for-northern -ireland .
14 Jill Lawless and Peter Morrison, “Sinn Fein Eyes Historic Win in Northern Ireland Election,” A P News , May 4,
2022; Mark Landler, “As B ritain Turned Away from EU, Northern Ireland Turned to Sinn Fein,” New York Times , May
7, 2022; Mark Devenport, “How Alliance Number Nerds Turned Single Digits into a Surge,” BBC News , May 9, 2022.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   7 Following  the May 2022 election, the DUP blocked the work  of the Assembly and prevented the
formation of a new Executive  in an effort  to continue to pressure the UK government to address
unionist objections to the post -Brexit arrangements in the Northern Ireland protocol. In February
2023, the UK and the EU anno unced a new agreement —known as the Windsor Framework —that
sought to resolve the challenges posed by the Northern Ireland protocol . The DUP , however,
asserted that the Windsor Framework did not fully address the party’s concerns about the protocol
and that further progress would be necessary before the DUP  would agree to reestablish Northern
Ireland’s devolved  government .
T able 1. Northern Ireland 2022 Election Results
Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs)
Political Party  # of Seats  +/- Seats
Sinn Fein (SF; hard -line nationalist, left -wing) 27 —
Democratic Unionist Party (DUP; hard -line unionist, conservative ) 25 -3
Alliance Party of Northern Ireland  (APNI; nonsectarian, centrist/ liberal ) 17 +9
Ulster Unionist Party (UUP; moderate unionist, center -right)  9 -1
Social Democratic and Labor Party (SDLP ; moderate nationalist, center -
left) 8 -4
Traditional Unionist Voice (TUV ; hard-line unionist, right -wing) 1 —
People Before Profit Alliance (PBPA; nonsectarian , left-wing)  1 —
Independent (unionist)  2 +1
Source:  BBC News,  “Northern Ireland Assembly Election Results 2022,”  https://www.bbc.com/ news/ election/
2022/ northern -ireland/ results .
Main Political Parties in Northern Ireland
Sinn Fein.  Sinn Fein has been the l argest nationalist party in Northern Ireland since 2003. It  advocates for a
united Ireland. Sinn Fein is an all -island party and has a political presence in Northern Ireland and Ireland (with
members in both the Northern Ireland Assembly and the Irish Parliament). Historic ally, Sinn Fein was the political
party associated with the Irish Republican Army (IRA) . A left -wing party, Sinn Fein traditionally has received
considerable support from working -class Catholics. Mary Lou McDonald has led Sinn Fein since 2018 . Michelle
O’Neill has led Sinn Fein in the Northern Ireland Assembly  since 2017 ; she is also the party’s deputy l eader.
Democratic Unionist Party (DUP).  The DUP has been the l argest unionist party in Northern Ireland since
2003. It  enjoys considerable Protestant support and str ongly f avors union with the United Kingdom (UK). The
party  initially opposed the 1998 Good Friday Agreement, viewing virtually any compromise with Irish nationalists
as a net loss for unionists. Socially conservative, the DUP opposes abort ion and same -sex marriage. Gavin
Robinson  has led the DUP since late March 2024 ( he initially served in an interim capacity and was confirmed as
party leader in May 2024) .
Alliance Party.  The Alliance Party is a n onsectarian, cross -community party  that is centrist and libe ral in political
orientation . It argues for reforming the devolved government’s power -sharing rules to promote greater stability
and reflect growing support for nonsectarian parties . The Alliance Party has been l ed by Naomi Long since 2016.
Ulster Unionist  Party (UUP).  The UUP is a s maller, center -right Protestant party that supports union with the
UK. It was the lead unionist party involved in the negotiations on the Good Frid ay Agreement. Jon Burrows  has
led the UUP since January  2026.
Social Democratic and Labo ur Party (SDLP).  The SDLP is a s maller, center -left Catholic party that
supports a united Ireland achieved through peaceful means. It was the lead nationalist party involved in the
negotiations on the Good Friday Agreement.  Claire Hanna has led the SDLP since October 2024 .
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   8 2024 Reestablishment of the Devolved Government
Following the February  2023  Windsor Framework , the UK government sought to address the
DUP’s remaining concerns about the post -Brexit arrangements for Northern Ireland an d facilitate
the establishment of a new devolved government. In late January 2024, the DUP accepted a
package of measures proposed by the UK government —set out in a new Safeguarding the Union
command paper —that outline d some operational  changes to the Wind sor Framework to ease trade
further between Northern Ireland and Great Britain  and reassure unionists of Northern Ireland’s
place within the UK.15 Despite some concerns among several DUP party officials about the
command paper and accompanying implementing legislation, the DUP decided to end its boycott
of Northern Ireland’s power -sharing institutions and enter into a new devolved government.16
Northern Ireland’s Assembly and new Executive began work on February 3, 2024. For the first
time in Northern Ireland’s history, the position of first minister is now held by a Sinn Fein
member, Michelle O’Neill. Sinn Fein was entitled to the position of first minister  because it won
the largest number of Assembly seats in the May 2022 election , although the  roles of first
minister and deputy minister are equal. DUP Assembly member  Emma Little -Pengelly assumed
the role of deputy first minister. Both First Minister O’Neill and Deputy First Minister Little -
Pengelly pledged to serve “all” people and communities in Northern Ireland.17
As part of the 2024 deal to restore the devolved gove rnment, the UK government agreed to
provide a £3.3 billion (about $4.2 billion) financial package for Northern Ireland to help address
budgetary pressures (due in part to the delay in reestablishing the devolved government). Funding
priorities include d increasing public sector pay  amid high inflation and recent large -scale strikes
(by health care and transportation workers, teachers, civil servants, and others) , improving
infrastructure, and enhancing investment. The UK government also recommitted to devolv ing
corporate tax powers to Northern Ireland’s power -sharing institutions, which would allow
Northern Ireland to set a lower corporate tax rate than the UK main rate (of 25%)  to compete
more effectively with the lower corporate tax rate in the Republic of Ireland.18
Ongoing Challenges in the Peace Process
Nearly 28  years after the signing of the Good Friday Agreement  and a much -improved security
situation , the past remains ever -present in Northern Ireland and t he search for peace and
reconciliation remains challenging. Difficult issues include  bridging sectarian divisions and
managing key sticking points ( such as  parading, protests, and the use of flag s and emblems ),
dealing with Northern Ireland’s  legacy of violence , addressing remaining paramilitary concer ns
and curbing dissident activity , and furthering economic development and equality.
15 In the UK, command papers  are official publications that present major government initiatives to Parliament “by
command” of the sovereign.  See UK Parliament, “About Command Papers, ” https://www.parliament.uk/ about/ how/
publications/ government/ .
16 Shawn Pogatchnik, “DUP Agrees to Drop Boycott of Northern Ireland Power -Sharing,” Politico , January 30, 2024;
Jayne McCormack and Finn Purdy, “Stormont: Assembly to Sit on Saturday as DUP Boycott Ends,” BBC News ,
Februar y 1, 2024.
17 Brendan Hughes and Matt Fox, “Stormont: Michelle O’Neill Makes History as Nationalist First Minister,” BBC
News, February 3, 2024; William Booth and Amanda Ferguson, “Northern Ireland Gets Its First Sinn Fein First
Minister in Historic Shift,”  Washington Post , February 3, 2024.
18 Margaret Canning, “Northern Ireland Businesses Welcome Prospect of Corporation Tax Devolution Contained in
DUP Deal,” Belfast Telegraph , January 31, 2024; Northern Ireland Office, “UK Government Confirms £3.3bn
Spending Settlement for Restored Northern Ireland Executive,” press release, February 13, 2024.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   9 Sectarian Divisions
Northern Ireland remains a largely divided society , with Protestant and Catholic communities
existing largely in parallel. Schools and public housing  developments  in Northern Ireland remain
mostly s ingle -identity communities. In March 2022, the Northern Ireland Assembly passed
legislation to increase the number of integrated sc hool places and establish targets for the number
of children  educated in int egrated schools.19 For the 202 5-2026 academic year , out of roughly
1,100 nursery, primary, and post -primary schools in Northern Ireland, there were 7 6 formally
integrated schools, educating about 8% of pupils.20
In some areas  in Northern Ireland , peace wal ls separate Protestant and Catholic ne ighborhoods .
Estimates of the number of peace walls vary depending on the definition . Northern Ireland’s
Departments of Justice and Housing have responsibility for around 60  peace walls ; when other
types of structures  are included —such as fences, gates, and clos ed roads —the number of physical
barriers separating Protestant and Catholic communities  is estimated at over  100.21 Northern
Ireland ’s Executive has been  working to remove the peace walls  since 2013 . Although some
surveys of public attitudes indicate growing support for removing the walls, concerns about safety
and security also remain in some communities.22
Sectarian di visions may be  apparent  during the a nnual summer marching season , when  many
unionist cultural and religious organizations hold  parades commemorating Protestant history.
Although th e vast majority of these annual parades are not contentious, some are held through or
close to areas populated m ainly by Catholics (some of whom perceive such unionist parades as
triumphalist and intimidating). During the Troubles, the marching season often provoked fierce
violence. Many Protestant organizations view the existing Parades Commission , which  arbitrates
disputes over parade routes , as largely biased in favor of Catholics  and have repeatedly argued for
abolishing  the commission .23 Efforts over the years to address the  issue of parading and related
protests have stalled repeatedly.
In 2016, a  Commission on Flags, Identity, Culture , and Tradition was established to assess the use
of flags, emblems, and other  issues  that may spark sectarian tensions  and to recommend  policies
to reduce potential conflicts . After several delays, the commission’s report was published in  2021.
The report contains over 40 recommendations , but the commission was unable to reach
agreemen t on some key  issues , including  related to flags and memorials . Critics question ed the
report’s value given the  delays,  costs  (£800,000 , or about $1.1 million) , and lack of an
accompanying  implementat ion plan .24
19 Robbie Meredith, “Integrated Education: Stormont Passes Bill Despite DUP Oppositio n,” BBC News , March 9,
2022 ; Pivotal Public Policy Forum NI,  Achieving Greater Integration in Education and Housing , March 13, 2025.
20 Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency, “Annual Enrolments at Schools and in Funded Pre -School
Education in Nort hern Ireland, 202 5/26,” February 2 6, 202 6, see in particular Tables 1b and 2a,
https://datavis.nisra.gov.uk/ DEstatistics/ annual -enrolments -schools -and-funded -pre-school -education -northern -ireland -
202526.html .
21 Rory Carroll, “ Belfast’s Peace Walls: Potent Symbols of Division Are Dwindling —But Slowly,” Guardian , April 7,
2023; “What Is a Peace Wall? An Explainer,” Irish News , July 27, 2023.
22 Julian O’Neill, “NI Troubles: I Would Love to See That Wall Coming Down,” BBC News, January 29, 2023 ;
Rebecca Black, “Progress Continues to Be Made in Bid to Transform Northern Ireland’s Peace Walls,” Irish News ,
December 31, 2023.
23 The Parades Commissio n was established in 1998 as an independent body to rule on disputed parades.
24 Jayne McCormack, “Flags Report: Stormont Publishes £800k Report Without Action Plan,” BBC News, December
1, 2021; Northern Ireland Executive Office, Commission on Flags, Identi ty, Culture and Tradition – Final Report ,
December 1, 2021.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   10 Dealing with the Past
Fully addressing Northern Ireland’s legacy of violence and pursuing justice for crimes committed
during the Troubles has been difficult and often contentious. Reaching consensus on the best way
to deal with the past  is challenging in large part because many unionists and nationalists continue
to view the Troubles differently and retain competing narratives. Cases of suspected collusion
between UK se curity institutions, Northern Ireland’s former police force, and paramilitary
organizations active during the Troubles have been particularly difficult to resolve.
The Good Friday Agreement asserted that , “it is essential to acknowledge and address the
suffering of the victims of violence as a necessary element of reconciliation.” In 2008, the
Northern Ireland Assembly established a Commission for Victims and Survivors to support
victims and their families. Several legal processes for examining crimes stemm ing from the
Troubles have exist ed. These  have  include d investigations into  conflict -related  deaths by a
dedicated  PSNI  unit; investigations by the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland  (PONI)  of
historical cases involving allegations of police misconduct;  fact-finding coroner inquests;  and
public inquiries, such as the Saville inquiry (concluded in 2010) into the January 1972 Bloody
Sunday incident  in which  the British Army shot 28 people , resulting in 14 deaths .25 In 2016, an
independent police team —known  as Operation Kenova —was established  to investigate a high -
profile case of suspected collusion during the Troubles  and subsequently expanded  to investigate
several other  such cases ; the Kenova team  issued its final report in December 2025 .26
Some observers have  argue d these various legal processes represent ed a piecemeal  approach and
that progress was slow . As of mid-2022, UK officials reported that over 900 conflict -related cases
(involving nearly 1,200 deaths) were awaiting investigation by the PSNI .27 Some experts point
out the expense  and time involve d with some of these processes; f or example, the  Saville inquiry
into Bloody Sunday  cost £195 million (more than $3 00 million ) and took 12 years to complete .28
Prosecuting former British soldiers who served in Northern Ireland during the Troubles also has
been a controversial  issue, and Troubles -era criminal prosecutions have faced legal hurdles as the
passage of time may  make it more difficult to meet the required evidentiary bar.29
In 2014, the UK and Irish governments convened interparty talks to address a number of  political,
financial, and sectarian  issues in Northern Ireland,  including  how to deal with the past . The
resulting Stormont House Agreement  called for establishing several new mechanisms to address
“legacy issues .”30 Efforts to enact these  mechanis ms in UK law, however, stalled for years amid
successive crises  in both the UK and Northern Ireland  governments , as well as differences
between the UK government and various stakeholders on certain aspects, including related to
“national security caveats” pertaining to the disclosure of sensitive or classified informa tion.31
25 Thirteen deaths occurred on Bloody Sunday; another person wounded on Bloody Sunday died several months later.
26 Kenova Final Report , December 9, 2025, https://www.psni.police.uk/ about -us/our-publications/ operation -kenova -
final-report .
27 Government of the UK, Northern Ireland Troubles (Legacy and Reconciliation) Bill Explanatory Notes , May 17,
2022, p. 6, https://publications.parliament.uk/ pa/bills/ cbill/ 58-03/0010/ en/220010en.pdf .
28 James Clarke, “Was the Bloody Sunday Report Value for Money?,” BBC  News, June 14, 2010.
29 Edward Burke, “The Trouble with Northern Ireland Legacy Cases,” Royal United Services Institute (RUSI), April
22, 2021; and  Claire Mills and David Torrance, Investigation of Former Armed Forces Personnel Who Served in
Northern Irela nd, UK House of Commons Library, May 18, 2022 .
30 The 2014 Stormont House Agreement is available at https://www.gov.uk/ government/ publications/ the-stormont -
house -agreement .
31 Anne Cadwallader, “Bereaved Families Have a Right to the Truth,” Irish Times , December 31, 2 015; Gareth Gordon,
“Troubles Legacy Consultation Launched by Government,” BBC News, May 11, 2018.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   11 The Northern Ireland Troubles (Legacy and Reconciliation) Act 2023
In May 2022, the UK government  of then -Prime Minister Boris Johnson  introduced the Northern
Ireland Troubles (Legacy and Reconciliation) Bill in the UK Parlia ment ; the bill  emphasiz ed
information recovery  over legal  and judicial processes. UK officials argued that the bill would
prioritize providing information to  victims and families, protect military veterans from
prosecution, and encourage wider societal reconciliation.32 Despite considerable opposition to the
legislation within and outside of Northern Ireland (discussed below), the UK House of Commons
passed the bill in July 2022, by a vote of 282 to 217. The bill was supported mostly by the then-
majority Conservative Party. The t hen-opposition Labour Party and ot hers voted against the bill;
no Members of Parliament from Northern Ireland supported it. In January 2023, the UK
government of then-Prime Minister Rishi Sunak (who  had taken over as Conservative Party
leader and  Prime Minister in October 2022) introduced several amendments to the bill, largely in
response to concerns raised by victims and survivors.  Following some delays and resistance in the
UK House of Lords, the UK Parliament gave final approval to the bill in  September 2023. The
bill subsequently received royal assent and became UK law.33
Among other measures, the legislation  (commonly  referred to as the Legacy Act) establishe d a
new Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery (ICRIR) ch arged
with reviewing Troubles -related deaths an d cases of serious injury  and providing  information to
victims and families . The Legacy Act also establish ed a conditional immunity scheme that would
provide immunity from prosecution for Troubles -related offe nses for individuals  that cooperate d
with the ICRIR . Furthermore, the act  banned criminal investigations into Troubles -related
incidents by any UK authority other than the ICRIR, ended most coroner inquests, and prohibited
future civil claims for Troubles -related misconduct. The act mandated a ll Troubles -related
investigations to cease, except those in support of prosecutions already underway , by May 1,
2024  (the same day the  ICRIR began work ).34
Although UK veterans groups and campaigners largely welcomed the Legacy Act, victims groups
and human rights advocates were critical and all Northern Ireland political parties oppos ed it.35
Nationalists contend ed that ending investigations and most prosecutions would circumvent justice
for victims and families and allow the UK government to cover up the truth about the state ’s
actions during the Troubles. U nionists object ed to what they view ed as establishing moral
equivalency between the actions of soldier s and parami litaries . The Irish gove rnment also
expre ssed concerns about the legislation and “regret” that it departed from the approach
previously agreed in the 2014 Stormont House Agreement.36
Legal experts questioned whether certain provisions of the Legacy Act, es pecially those related to
investigations and the immunity scheme, were compatible with UK commitments in the European
32 Government of the UK, “Secretary of State for Northern Ireland to Outline Way Forward to Address the Legacy of
the Troubles,” press release, May 17, 2022; UK Parliament, Northern Ireland Troubles (Legacy and Reconciliation)
Act 2023 , https://bills.parliament.uk/ bills/ 3160 .
33 Government of the UK, “Government Tables Amendments to NI Troubles Legacy Le gislation,” press release,
January 17, 2023; “Troubles Legacy Bill Enters Law After Receiving Royal Assent,” BBC News , September 19, 2023.
34 For more information, see Northern Ireland Office, Explainers Relating to the Northern Ireland Troubles (Legacy
and Reconciliation) Bill , May 25, 2022; and Joanna Dawson et al., Northern Ireland Troubles (Legacy and
Reconciliation) Bill 2022 -2023 , UK House of Commons Library, July 14, 2023.
35 See, for example, UK Parliament, Hansard, Northern Ireland Troubles (Legacy a nd Reconciliation) Bill , volume
717, debated on July 4, 2022, https://hansard.parliament.uk/ Commons/ 2022 -07-04/debates/ 854CCB3A -19C5 -4724 -
9CF2 -A2B02E6D9086/ NorthernIrelandTroub les(LegacyAndReconciliation)Bill .
36 Irish Department of Foreign Affairs, “Ireland Welcomes Decision by Council of Europe on Northern Ireland Legacy
Issues,” press release, June 10, 2022.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   12 Convention on Human Rights . Victims groups and families filed several judicial challenges to the
act in UK courts and the Irish government  filed a case against the act before the ECHR’s
European Court of Human Rights. In February 2024, the Belfast High Court found that the
immunity provisions , among others,  in the Legacy Act were in breach of the ECHR.  In September
2024, the Northern Ireland  Court of Appeal found additional aspects of  the Legacy Act to be
incompatible with the ECHR, including that the act reportedly gave the UK government too much
discretion over the ICRIR’s disclosure of sensitive information.37
Efforts to Repeal and Replac e the 2023 Legacy Act
In July 2024, a new UK government led by Prime Minister Keir Starmer of the Labour Party took
office following parliamentary elections and committed to “repealing and replacing” the Legacy
Act.38 Although some veterans’ groups opposed repeal ing the Legacy Act, in December 2024, UK
Secretary of State for Northern Ireland Hilary Benn asserted  that the  previous government’s
approach was “wrong” and announced initial steps to repeal certain  Legacy Act  provisions.
Secretary of State Benn further not ed that he intended to  begin discussions with the Irish
government aimed at agreeing on a “way forward ” on legacy issues.39
In September 2025, the UK and Irish governments  announced a new joint framework on legacy
issues , assert ing that “Ou r shared goal is to secure truth, accountability, and, to the extent
possible, justice for victims, families and survivors, and for society .”40 The UK government
reaffirmed its commitment to repeal and replace the Legacy Act and , among other measures, to
restructure and rename the ICRIR as the Legacy Commissio n, capable of  carry ing out
investigations that could  lead to prosecutions.  The UK and Irish governments also agreed to
establish a cross -border Independent Commission on Information Retrieval to receive information
on legacy cases (information disclosed to this separate commission would be inadmissible in both
criminal and civil  proceedings ). In tandem with the release of the joint framework , the UK
government published a package of protections for  veterans who served in Northern Ireland ; the
UK government assert ed that this package  aims to ensure veterans “are protected from end less
legal challenges” and “terrorist acts are not granted immunity.”41
In October 2025, the Starmer  government introduced the Northern Ireland Troubles Bill 2024 -26
to repeal and replace parts of the 2023 Legacy Act .42 The new bill and  secondary legislation
introduced simultaneously  would , respectively, implement measures in the UK-Irish joint
framework  and repeal aspects of the Legacy Act  found  by UK courts  to be incompatible with the
ECHR , including the immunity provisions . As of March 2026, the bill is under consideration in
37 Shawn Pogatchnik, “Ireland to Sue UK over Law Blocking Probes into Northern Irish Violence,” Politico , December
20, 2023; Megan Specia, “Immunity for Troubles Violence Violates Human Rights, Belfast Court Rules,” New York
Times , February 28, 2024; Chris Page, “Legacy Act Gives Government Too Much Power, Court Rules,” BBC News,
September 20, 2024.
38 Northern Ireland Office, Statement from the Secretary of State Following the King’s Speech , July 17, 2024.
39 Northern Ireland Office, Secretary of State Oral Statement on Northern Ireland Legacy , Oral Statement to
Parliament, De cember 4, 2024.
40 UK Government and the Government of Ireland, The Legacy of the Troubles: A Joint Framework Between the
Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of Ireland , September
19, 2025, https://www.gov.uk/ government/ publications/ the-legacy -of-the-troubles -a-joint-framework -between -the-
government -of-the-united -kingdom -of-great -britain -and-northern -ireland -and-the-government -o.
41 UK Ministry of Defence, “Six New Protections, Rights, and Safeguards for Northern Ireland Veterans: Legacy
Announcement,” September 19, 2025, https://www.gov.uk/ guidance/ six-new-protections -rights -and-safeguards -for-
northern -ireland -veterans -legacy -announcement .
42 UK Parliament, Northern Ireland Troubles Bill , https: //bills.parliament.uk/ bills/ 4022 . Also  see Joanna Dawson et al.,
Northern Ireland Troubles Bill 202 4-26, UK House of Commons Library, November 5, 2025.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   13 the UK House of Commons  and has advanced with the backing of the majority Labour Party .
Reactions to the new bill among Northern Ireland parties and stakeholders have been mixed.
Nationalists and victims groups have been generally supportive, whereas  the DUP, other
unionists, an d veterans groups have raised a number of concerns, including related to the Irish
government ’s role  in formulating and implementing some aspects of the joint framework and
whether the protections for veterans announced by the UK government are sufficient.  In debates
and preliminary votes in the House of Commons to date, the DUP and other unionists have
declined to support the bill.43
Remaining Paramilitary Issues and Dissident Activity
Experts contend the major republican and loyalist paramilitary organiza tions active during the
Troubles are now committed to the political process  and remain on cease -fire. A 2015  UK
government -comm issioned review found that  all the main  paramilitary groups that operated
during the Troubles still exist ed, but the leadership of each group, “to different degrees,” was
“committed to peaceful means to achieve their political objectives.”  At the same time, the review
concluded  that individual members of paramilitary groups continued to  represent a threat to
national security  and public order , including through their involvement in organized crime .44
In 2017,  a four-member Independent Reporting Commission (IRC)  was established  to monitor
paramilitary activity and report annually  on pro gress toward ending such  activity . The UK and
Irish government s each  named one commissioner  to the IRC , and the N orthern Ireland Executive
named  two.45 In its eighth  annual report, released in  December  2025 , the IRC observed that
violent crime linked to paramilitarism has been declining, but also stated that “intimidation,
coercive control, and threats linked to paramilitary groups persist.” The IRC furth er noted that
over the last two years, there ha s been instances of a “link between paramilit arism and racist
violence connected to the issue of immigration .”46 In recent years, IRC commissioners and other
observers also have raised concerns about the degree to which divisions over Brexit could
enhance paramilitary influence.47
The IRC supports  addressing paramilitarism with an approach that combines policing and
criminal justice responses with  measures to tackle  the underlying socioeconom ic challenges
facing communities in which paramilitaries operate . The IRC also has argue d for considering
direc t engagement with paramilitar ies to promote voluntary disband ment . Other Northern Ireland
43 See, for example, UK Parliament, Hansard, Northern Ireland Troubles Bill , volume 775, debated on November 18,
2025, https://hansard.parliament.uk/ commons/ 2025 -11-18/debates/ 5E328786 -BF54 -4072 -BA80 -FD31AC025AFA/
NorthernIrelandTroublesBill ; and Enda McClafferty and Brendan Hughes, “New Legacy Bill Passes Next Stage at
Westminster,” BBC News, November 18, 2025.
44 Government of the UK, Independent Report: Assessment on Paramilitary Grou ps in Northern Ireland , October 20,
2015. This report focused on the following paramilitary groups: the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF); the Red Hand
Commando (RHC); the Ulster Defense Association (UDA, which also conducted attacks during the Troubles under t he
name of the Ulster Freedom Fighters, or UFF); the South East Antrim (SEA) group of the UDA; Loyalist Volunteer
Force (LVF); the Irish Republican Army (IRA, also known as the Provisional Irish Republican Army, or PIRA); and
the Irish National Liberation Army (INLA).
45 The UK government chose former U.S. Special Envoy for Northern Ireland Mitchell Reiss  as its representative on
the IRC. Reiss served as special envoy in the George W. Bush Administration from 2003 to 2007.
46 Indepe ndent Reporting Commission Eight h Report , December 9 , 2025, https://www.ircommission.org/ publications/
irc-eighth -report .
47 Shawn Pogatchnik, “Who Are the Northern Ireland Loyal ists Threatening to Shun Peace Deal over Brexit Fears?,”
Politico , March 5, 2021; Julian O’Neill, “NI Protocol: Warning Over Loyalist Paramilitaries Gaining Momentum,”
BBC News, December 12, 2022.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   14 officials have cautioned that engagement could legitimiz e paramilitaries ; they  advocate instead
for greater investment in policing and community development .48
Securi ty assessments indicate that dissident groups not on cease -fire and opposed to the 1998
peace accord  continue to p ose threats . Dissident republican groups are regarde d as posing the
greatest  terrorist threat in Northern Ireland  but do not have the same capacity to mount a
sustained terror campaign as the IRA did between the 1970s and the 1990s . Most of the dissident
republican groups are small in comparison to the IRA du ring the height of the Troubles.49
Four main dissident republican groups  exist currently : the Continuity IRA (CIRA); Óglaigh na
hÉireann  (ÓNH); Arm na Poblacht  (ANP), and the New IRA (reportedly  formed in 2012).50
These groups have sought to target police  officers , prison officers, and other members of the
security services in particular.  The New IRA  has claimed responsibility for  some high -profile
attacks in recent years, including  shooting and critically wounding  a senior and  prominent PSNI
detective , John Caldwell , in Omagh in  2023.51 The New IRA also was responsible for the 2019
death of journalist Lyra McKee, who was shot while covering riots in Londonderry  (also known
as Derry ).52 Although less active generall y than the New IRA, i n 2023,  ANP warned that it would
consider the families of PSNI officers to be targets as well.53
Economic Development and Equal Opportunity
Northern Ireland ’s economy has made considerable  advances since the 1990s  but also has faced
challenges . Between 1997 and 2007, Northern Ireland ’s economy grew an average of 5.6%
annually (marginally above the UK average of 5.4%). Unemployment decr eased from over 17%
in the 1980s to 4.3% by 2007.54 The 2008 -2009 global recession  led to a prolonged downturn in
the region  and e conomic recovery was  slow  and uneven  for years but gradually improved
between 2013 and 2019 . Like elsewhere in the UK, t he COVID -19 pandemic affected Northern
Ireland’s economy  in 20 20, but economic activity largely recovered  in 2021 .55
Since  mid-2022,  higher energy costs  and a rise in  inflation and interest rates  have  contribut ed to
some quarterly fluctuations in economic output and  an increased  cost of living . Northern Ireland’s
economic output increased by 2.9% between the third quarters of 202 4 and 202 5; in comparison
to pre -pandemic levels in 2019, economic activity in Northern Ireland in the third quarter of 2024
48 Julian O’Neill, “Disbandment Talks Could Legitimize Param ilitaries, Warns Long,” BBC News, February 27, 2025.
49 See, for example, Rory Carroll, “Northern Ireland Republican Dissidents Lurk in the Shadows Hoping to be
Noticed,” Guardian , February 23, 2023.
50 ÓNH declared itself on cease -fire in 2018, although a s mall splinter group formed in opposition to the cease -fire.
Also see Zoe Manzi, “Northern Ireland Related Terrorism,” Institute for Strategic Dialogue, January 15, 2024.
51 Julian O’Neill, “Omagh Police Shooting: John Caldwell Attack Causes Shockwaves in P SNI,” BBC News, February
25, 2023; Allison Morris, “New IRA Still Main Suspect in DCI Caldwell Shooting, Chief Constable Tells Policing
Board,” Belfast Telegraph , March 2, 2023 .
52 The New IRA claimed responsibility for McKee’s death but reportedly issued an apology; the group asserted that it
had intended to shoot a police officer during the riots but had hit McKee by accident. See Ed O’Loughlin, “New IRA
Apologizes for Killing of Journalist in Northern Ireland,” New York Times , April 23, 2019.
53 Seanin Graham, “PSNI Officers Warned of Republican Dissident Threat to Their Families,” Irish Times , March 7,
2023.
54 Orla Ryan, “Northern Ireland’s Economic Fears,” BBC News, June 22, 2001 ; Northern Ireland Executive Economic
Strategy, Consultation on Priorities for Sustainable Growth and Prosperity , January 2011.
55 Valentina Romei and Chris Giles, “Northern Ireland Economy Has Outperformed Rest of UK, ONS Figures Show,”
Financial Times , November 29, 2021; John Campbell, “COVID -19: NI Economic Recovery May Be Weaker Than
Originally Thought,” BBC News, February 28, 2022.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   15 show ed stronger growth ( 12%) than in the UK ( 5.2%).56 Northern Irelan d’s unemploymen t rate
for October -December 202 5 was 2.2%, lower than the UK average unemployment rate of 5.2%.57
Some  long-standing economic difficulties and disparities  persist in Northern Ireland . In 2023 ,
Northern Ireland ’s gross domestic product per capita (£ 32,944, or about $ 44,440 ) was below the
UK’s average (£3 9,845, or about $ 53,750).58 As of January 2026, Northern Ireland had the largest
annual increase (6%) in median monthly pay within the UK  but wa s the second -lowest -earning
region .59 Northern Ireland has a persistently  higher rate o f economic inacti vity (2 6.5% in the
fourth  quarter of 202 5) than the UK overall (2 0.8% in the same quarter) , exacerbated by long -
term illness and disability in the aftermath of the pandemic,  and a high proportion of working -age
individuals with no formal qualifications.60 Studies indicate the historically poorest areas in
Northern Ireland remain so , and many of these bore the brunt of the Troubles. Although many of
the areas considered the most deprived are predominantly Catholic, others are predominantly
Protestant. Some experts  contend the most economically disadvantaged areas in Northern Ireland
have benefitted the least from the so-called peace dividend .61
At the same time, Northern Ireland has made strides in promoting equality in its workforce. The
gap in workforce participation between Protestants and Catholics has shrunk considerably since
1990  and has converged in the last few years. According to the  most recent data available from
Northern Ireland’s Equality Commission, in 202 3, for the second consecutive year , the share of
Catholics  in Northern Ireland’s workforce  (50.5%) was larger  than the share of Protestants
(49.5%); in comparison, in 1990 , the sha re of Protestants in Northern Ireland’s workforce was
65%, while the share of Catholics was 35%.62
Implications of Brexit63
In the UK ’s 2016 public referendum on EU membership,  voters in Northern Ireland favored
remaining in the EU, 56% to 44%  (the UK overall voted in favor of leaving  the EU , 52% to
48%). Brexit has posed challenges for Northern Ireland’s power -sharing institutions  and
economic interests  and exacerbated societal  divisions . Brexit  also has renewed longer -term
questions about Northern Ireland’s constitutional status  as part of the UK .
Maintaining a post -Brexit open border on the island of Ireland was a key goal, and a major
stumbling block, in negotiating the UK’s withdrawal agreement with the EU  (Ireland remains an
56 Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency, Northern Ireland Co mposite Economic Index Quarter 3  2025,
January 1 5, 2026.
57 Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency, Northern Ireland Labour Market Report , February 1 7, 202 6.
58 Matthew Ward and Daniel Harari, Regional and National Economic Indicators , UK House of Commons Library,
February 4, 2026.
59 Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency, Northern Ireland Labour Market Report , February 17, 2026.
60 Ulster University, Economic Inactivity: Who, What, Where, Why? , January 2024; Northern Ireland Statistics and
Research Agency, Northern Ireland La bour Market Report , February 1 7, 202 6.
61 Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency , Northern Ireland M ultiple Deprivation Measures 2017 , November
2017; Duncan Morrow, Sectarianism in Northern Ireland: A Review , University of Ulster, 2019, pp. 32 -35; Pivotal
Public Policy Forum NI, Reconciliation and Deprivation: Twin Challenges for Northern Ireland , May 2023.
62 Data applies to Northern Ireland’s “total monitored workforce,” as defined  in and required by  Northern Ireland ’s fair
employment legislation; “total monitored workforce”  does not include the self -employed, school teachers, or those in
private sector companies with ten or less employees. See Northern Ireland Equality Commission : for 2023 data,  Fair
Employment Monitoring Report No. 3 4, released June 19 , 202 5; for 1990 data, Fair Employment Monitoring Report
No. 3 3, released July 10, 2024, p. 21.
63 For more background on Brexit, see CRS Report R46730, Brexit: Overview, Trade, and Northern Ireland ,
coordinated by Derek E. Mix .
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   16 EU member state) . In 2019, post-Brexit trade and customs arrangements for Northern Ireland
were set out in a Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland to the  UK-EU withdrawal agreement .64 The
protocol’s  terms  were aimed at ensuring an open border on the island of Ireland while also
respecting  EU single market  rules .
The UK withdrew from the EU on January 31, 2020, ending its 47 -year membership in the bloc.
Following an  11-month transition period (during which the UK continued to participate in the
EU’s single market and customs union) , the post -Brexit arrangements in the Northern Ireland
protocol took effect on January 1, 2021.  The DUP was the only major Northern Irelan d political
party to support Brexit but often was at  odds with Brexit’s  implementation by successive UK
governments.  The subsequent  2023 Windsor Framework agreed between the UK and the EU and
a 2024 UK-DUP agreement sought to address DUP concerns about the  post-Brexit arrangements
and to reduce political and societal tensions in Northern Ireland.
The Irish Border and Post -Brexit Arrangements
At the time of the 1998 Good Friday Agreement, the EU membership of both the UK and the
Republic of Ireland was regar ded as essential to underpinning the political settlement by
providing a common European identity for unionists and nationalists in Northern Ireland. EU law
also provided a supporting framework for guaranteeing the human rights, equality, and
nondiscrimina tion provisions of the peace accord.  Since 1998, as security checkpoints were
dismantled in accordance with the peace agreement  and decreasing levels of violence , and
because both the UK and Ireland belonged to the EU ’s single market and customs union, the
circuitous 300 -mile land border between Northern Ireland and Ireland effectively disappe ared.
The open border  served as an important political and psychological symbol on both sides of the
sectarian divide and helped produce a dynamic cross -border economy .
UK, Irish, and EU leaders asserted repeatedly that they did not desire a  post-Brexit  hard border
with customs checks and physical infrastructure on the island of Ireland . Security assessments
suggested that if border or custom posts were reinstated, viol ent dissident groups opposed to the
peace process would view such infrastructure as targets . Some e xperts  feared that such violence
would threaten the region ’s security and stability and potentially put th e peace process at risk.65
Many in Northern Ireland and Ireland also were eager to maintain an open border to ensure
“frictionless” trade, safeguard the North-South economy, and protect community relations. People
in border communities  worried that any hardening of the border could affect daily travel across
the border to work, shop, or visit family and friends.  Studies  conducted in 2017 -2018 suggest ed
there were  upward of 300 public and private border crossing points along the border ; during the
Troubles,  only a fraction of crossing  points were open and hour -long delays due to security
measures and bureaucratic hurdles were common.66
Some Brexit advocates contended that Ireland and the EU were exaggerating the security
concerns about the border. Those of this view also noted that, al though the Good Friday
Agreement commits the UK to normalizing security arrangements  (including the removal of
64 Government of the UK, New Withdrawal Agreement and Political Declaration , October 19, 2019,
https://www.gov.uk/ government/ publications/ new-withdrawal -agreement -and-political -declaration ; and Government of
the UK, New Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland and Political Declaration , October 19, 2019, https://www.gov.uk/
government/ publications/ new-protocol -on-irelandnorthern -ireland -and-political -declaration .
65 See, for example, Henry McDonald, “Police Chief Says ‘Hard Brexit’ Irish Border Would Be Paramilitary Target,”
Guardian , February 7, 2018.
66 Sarah Lyall, “On Irish Border, Worries That Brexit Will Undo a Hard -Won Peace,” New York Times , August 5,
2017; Maeve Sheehan, “Irish Army Identifies 300 Border Crossing Points,” Belfast Telegraph , December 17, 2018.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   17 security installations “consistent with the level of threat” ), it does not explicitly require an open
border. The Irish government and many  officials and stakeholders  in Northern Ireland , as well as
elsewhere in the UK,  argued that an open border had become intrinsic to peace and to ensu ring
fulfillment of the Good Friday Agreement ’s provisions  on north -south cooperation on cross -
border issues ( such as transport ation , agriculture, and the environment).67
The Northern Ireland Protocol and Implementation Challenges
Under the terms of  the protocol  agreed by the UK and EU , Northern Ireland would remain legally
in the UK customs territory but would maint ain regulatory alignment with the EU. The protocol’s
provisions eliminated the need for checks on trade in goods at the land border between Northern
Ireland and Ireland but essentially created a regulatory and customs border in the Irish Sea
between Northe rn Ireland and Great Britain (often termed the Irish Sea border ). Any physical
checks necessary to ensure regulatory and customs compliance for goods moving from Great
Britain to Northern Ireland would be conducted at ports or points of entry away from the
politically sensitive land border between Northern Ireland and Ireland.
The DUP and other unionists strongly opposed the post -Brexit arrangements  in the protocol ,
contending they would jeopardize Northern Ireland’s economy, participation in the UK’s internal
market, and position as part of the UK.  Even before Brexit, demographic trends in Northern
Ireland (in which Catholics now outnumber Protestants)  and changes in societal attitudes
(especially among young people, who may not be as wedded to traditi onal religious or ethnic
identities) were causing some in the unionist community to perceive a loss in unionist traditions
and dominance. The initial post -Brexit trade  arrangements  arguably enhanced a sense of unionist
disenfranchisement , partly by raising  concerns that Northern Ireland could be drawn closer to the
Republic of Ireland’s economic orbit and this could be a precursor to a united Ireland.68
After the Northern Ireland protocol took effect on January 1, 2021, implementation and
operational challe nges soon emerged .69 The new customs and regulatory requirements on goods
entering Northern Ireland from Great Britain posed trade and administrative difficulties for some
businesses and consumers in Northern Ireland, despite initial grace periods for full
implementation of the new rules for agri -food products, medicines, and other items. Problems
included shipping delays and product shortages, especially for Northern Ireland supermarkets
dependent on suppliers elsewhere in the UK.70 Unionist and loyalist u nease with the protocol and
subsequent implementation challenges  may have factor ed into the violence and rioting that
erupted in several cities and towns across Northern Ireland in March and April 2021 .71
67 John Campbell, “Brexit: Does the Iri sh Peace Accord Rule Out a Hard Border?,” BBC News, January 30, 2019; Tom
McTague, “Brexit’s Ulster Problem,” Politico , June 12, 2019.
68 Ceylan Yeginsu, “In Northern Ireland, Brexit Deal Is Seen as Betrayal,” New York Times , October 24, 2019; Simon
Carswel l, “Loyalists on Brexit: A One -Way Route to an Economic United Ireland,” Irish Times , January 30, 2020 ;
Rory Carroll, “Northern Ireland Clashes Reflect Loyalists’ Fear of Marginalisation,” Guardian , April 5, 2021 ; Dan
Haverty, “How Brexit Lit the Fuse in N orthern Ireland,” Foreign Policy, April 13, 2021.
69 Since January 2021,  physical checks necessary to ensure EU regulatory and customs compliance have been
conducted at ports or points of entry on the northeast coast of Northern Ireland upon arrival from Gr eat Britain.
70 See, for example, Shawn Pogatchnik, “Supermarket Pleas Mount as Brexit Leaves Northern Ireland Shelves Bare,”
Politico , January 13, 202 1.
71 Boredom due to the COVID -19 lockdowns, especially among young people, and frustration among some unionists
following a March 2021 decision to not prosecute social distancing violations at a large 2020 funeral for a former high -
ranking IRA official , also may have contributed to the rioting. See, Shawn Pogatchnik, “Northern Ireland ‘Playing with
Matches ’ amid Brexit Trade Deal Tensions,” Politico , April 7, 2021; and Stephen Castle, “Northern Ireland Sees
Spasm of Violence as Old Tensions Resurface,” New York Times , April 8, 2021.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   18 Brexit also eroded trust between the UK and Irish g overnments.  As the guarantors of the Good
Friday Agreement, cooperation between the UK and Ireland is deemed essential to the continued
functioning and implementation  of the peace accord .72 The UK government and the DUP
increasingly argued that the protocol was not sustainable, called for substantial changes to the
protocol, and repeatedly threatened to suspend parts of it.73 Sinn Fein, other nationalists, and the
Irish government maintain ed that the protoc ol wa s the only viable option to avoid a har d border
on the island of Ireland . The EU rejected UK and DUP calls to fundamentally renegotiate the
protocol  and asserted that  any measures to resolve implementation problems must be found
“within the framework” of the protocol .74
The 2023 Windsor Framewo rk and the 2024 UK -DUP Deal
The 2023 UK-EU Windsor Framework and the 2024 UK -DUP agreement sought to address
implementation challenges and other concerns with Northern Ireland’s post -Brexit arrangements .
• 2023 Windsor Framework.75 Announced in February 2023  by the UK and EU
after nearly two years of negotiation s, the Windsor Framework left the basic
architecture of the protocol in place but s ought  to reduce customs checks and
paperwork for goods from Great Britain remaining in Northern Ireland . The
framework  includes simpler rules for certain agri -food products entering
Northern Ireland and sets out that UK health and safety standards (rather than EU
standards) would apply to all retail food and drink intended for end consumption
in Northern Ireland  (thereby ensuring that Northern Ireland consumers could still
buy certain iconic British products, such as fresh sausages) . Both the UK and the
EU stressed that the Windsor F ramework sought to provide solutions to  protocol -
related issue s affecting  everyday life for people and businesses in Northern
Ireland.  According to UK officials, the Windsor Framework narrowed the range
of EU laws applicable in Northern Ireland to less than 3% overall, needed to
maintain Northern Ireland’s access to the EU sing le market.  Among other
measures, t he framework also introduce d a new mechanism, known as the
Stormont brake , to allow Northern Ireland legislators to object to the automatic
application of changes in EU goods  rules in Northern Ireland.  UK and EU
officials officially approved the Windsor Framework in March 2023  and the new
trade rules came into force in October 2023.
• 2024 UK -DUP Deal.  Throughout the rest of 2023, the UK government sought to
address the DUP’s remaining concerns about the post -Brexit arrangeme nts for
Northern Ireland. In late January 2024, the UK government  proposed operational
changes to the Windsor Framework and other measures  in a new Safeguarding
the Union  document  (along with two pieces of implementing legislation ,
72 Pat Leahy, “NI Protocol Tensions Threaten UK -Ireland, UK -EU and UK -US Rel ations,” Irish Times , June 11, 2021.
73 See, for example, Government of the UK , Northern Ireland Protocol: The Way Forward , July 21, 2021, and
Democratic Unionist Party, Speech by DUP Leader Sir Jeffrey Donaldson MP , September 9, 2021.
74 European Commission , “Statement by Vice -President Maros Sefcovic Following Today’s Announcement by the UK
Government Regarding the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland,” press release, July 21, 2021.
75 The Windsor Framework consists of a package of documents, released Februa ry 27, 2023, and available from the
Government of the UK, https://www.gov.uk/ government/ publications/ the-windsor -framework . Also see, the European
Commission, “Questions an d Answers: Political Agreement in Principle on the Windsor Framework, a New Way
Forward for the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland,” February 27, 2023.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   19 subsequently debated and  approved by the UK parliament) .76 Key elements in the
deal sought  to reduce checks and paperwork further on goods moving from Great
Britain to Northern Ireland ; then -DUP leader Jeffrey Donaldson reportedly stated
that these provisions effectively remove  the border in the UK internal market
(i.e., the Irish sea border) .77 Other key provisions sought to reassure unionists of
Northern Ireland’s place in the UK , to promote trade within the UK, and to
provide additional guarantees regarding implementation of  the Stormont brake .
UK officials reportedly sought to portray the changes outlined in Safeguarding the Union  as
“significant” but also stressed that they would  not alter the “fundamentals” of the Windsor
Framework as agreed with the EU.78 Some analysts assessed that the changes to the post -Brexit
trading rules for Northern Ireland in the UK -DUP deal were relatively minimal and they
characterized Safeguarding the Un ion as designed largely to rea ffirm Northern Ireland’s place in
the UK  and the UK’s internal market .79 Some in the DUP argued that the Irish Sea border would
still exist, and opposed the DUP ’s decision to agree to reestablish Northern Ireland’s devolved
government.80 Some nationalists raised concerns that some elements in the UK command paper ,
such as promoting internal UK trade,  could undermine north -south cooperation  on the island of
Ireland  and the spirit of the Good Friday Agreement.81
In December 2024,  in accordance with the terms agreed in the Northern Ireland protocol/Windsor
Framework, the Northern Ireland Assembly held a vote on whether to maintain the region’s post -
Brexit arrangements. Assembly members  approved continuing the arrangements by a majority
vote of 48 to 36. Sinn Fein, Alliance, and other nationalist members  voted in favor ; the DUP  and
other unionis ts voted against. Given the lack of cross -community support, the post -Brexit
arrangements were  approved to continue for another four years (if maintaining the arrangements
had received cross -community support, they would have been extended for eight years).82
In May 2025, the UK government and the EU announced  the outlines of  a new , wide -ranging de al
aimed at resetting relations post -Brexit and enhancing cooperation on issues ranging from fishing
to security.83 As part of this deal, the UK government agreed to align with EU sanitary and
phytosanitary (SPS) rules for agri -food products, thereby aligning SPS rules in Great Britain with
those that apply in Northern Ireland under the Windsor Framework . Such alignment would
76 Government of the UK, Safeguarding the Union , released January 31, 2024, https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/
media/ 65ba3b7bee7d490013984a59/ Command_Paper__1_.pdf . Also see, David Torrance , Northern Ireland
Devolution: Safeguarding the Union , UK House of Commons Library, April 3, 2024.
77 As quoted in, John Campbell, “DUP Deal Aimed at Restoring Power Sharing in Northern Ireland Is Published,” BBC
News , January 31, 2024.
78 As quoted in, “DUP Says Stormont Deal Has Deliver ed ‘Fundamental Change’ to UK -EU Trading Rules,”
BreakingNews.ie, January 31, 2024.
79 John Campbell, “DUP Deal: Government Command Paper Bids to Reassure Unionists,” BBC News , February1,
2024; Peter Foster, “Four Years on and Brexit Still Isn’t Done,” Fina ncial Times , February 1, 2024; Joël Reland, “The
Northern Ireland Deal Offers Meaningful Change —If Westminster Keeps Its Word,” UK in a Changing Europe ,
February 2, 2024.
80 See, for example, David Lynch and Nick Lester, “DUP Split over Stormont Deal as Nig el Dodds Says Sea Border
Concerns Remain,” BreakingNews.ie., February 1, 2024; Adrian Rutherford, “Three Top DUP Figures Say There Is
‘No Dispute’ That Irish Sea Border Remains,” Belfast Telegraph , February 10, 2024.
81 See, for example, Freya McClements, “ UK Government ‘Undermining’ Belfast Agreement with Pro -unionist Stance,
SDLP Leader Says,” Irish Times , February 12, 2024.
82 See Northern Ireland Assembly, Democratic Consent Resolution , https://aims.niassembly.gov.uk/ plenary/
details.aspx? &ses=0&doc= 419985& pn=0&sid=vd. Also see, “Stormont Votes to Extend Post -Brexit Trading
Arrangements,” BBC News, December 10, 2024.
83 European Council, “EU -UK Summit 2025: Outcome Documents,” May 19, 2025.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   20 presumably eliminat e the need for physical checks on agri -food products from Great Britain at
Northern Ireland ports  and further ease trade. UK-EU negotiations to flesh out the SPS agreement
are ongoing ; UK and EU officials reportedly aim to finalize the necessary legal instruments and
implement the  agreement  by mid -2027.84
Economic Concerns
Following the 2016 UK referendum , some  experts express ed concern about Brexit’s possible
economic conse quences for Northern Ireland . Some studies  indicat ed that Northern Ireland
depend ed more on the EU market (and especially that of Ireland) for its exports than  did the rest
of the UK.85 According to  2023 data (most recent available) , approximately 70% of Northern
Ireland’s expo rts (goods and services)  went to the EU, including about 54% to Ireland, which
remains  Northern Ireland’s top single export and import partner.86
Many officials and analysts  in Northern Ireland and Ireland viewed m aintaining an open border
after B rexit as  crucial  to protecting the island’s cross -border economy , as well as  labor markets
and industries that operate on an all -island basis . Many manufacturers in Northern Ireland and
Ireland depend on integrated supply chains north and south of the border. For example, raw
materials that go into making milk, cheese, butte r, and alcoholic drinks often cross the border
between Northern Ireland and Ireland several times for processing and packaging.87
The DUP objected in part to the post -Brexit arrangements because of concerns that the se
arrangements  could negatively impact e conomic ties between the UK and Northern Ireland. UK
and DUP leade rs assert ed that the rest of the UK was overall more important economically to
Northern Ireland than the EU given the value of exports. According to  2023 data (most recent
available) , sales to other parts of the UK (£1 7.1 billion) were almost  double the v alue of exports
to Ireland (£ 8.7 billio n) and nearly six times the value of exports to the r est of t he EU (£2. 6
billion).88
Supporters of the post -Brexit arrangement s for Northern Ireland maintain  that they offer the
region unique economic opportunities , with privileged access to both the UK i nternal market and
the EU single market.89 As part of the UK customs union, Northern Ireland also is able to
participate in future UK trade deals. Some officials and experts suggested the post -Brexit
arrangements  may help make Northern Ireland  a more attractive destination for foreign direct
investment.90 In an Octo ber 202 5 poll by Queen’s University Belfast, 4 6% of respondents viewed
84 Stefano Fella et al., The UK -EU Reset: Next Steps After the May 2025 Summit , UK House of Commons Library, July
29, 2025 , pp. 36 -37; John Campbell, “Sea Border for Food and Agricultural Products in Place Unti l 2027,” BBC News,
August 27, 2025.
85 Report of the UK House of Lords European Union Committee, Brexit:  UK-Irish Relations , December 2016; Lisa
O’Carroll, “Pro -Brexit UK Regions More Dependent on EU for Exports, Study Finds,” Guardian , July 17, 2022.
86 Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency , Northern Ireland Economic Trade  Statistics  2023, December 1 1,
2024, https://datavis.ni sra.gov.uk/ economy -and-labour -market/ northern -ireland -economic -trade -statistics -2023.html .
87 See, for example, Simon Marks, “Brexit Is (Maybe) the Ruin of Irish Whiskey,” Politico , March 3, 2017; Colm
Kelpie, “Brexit: How Would No -Deal Affect Northern Ireland?,” BBC News, September 22, 2019.
88 Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency , Northern Ireland Economic Trade  Statistics 202 3, December 1 1,
2024.
89 See, for example, Andrew McDonald, “Rishi Sunak Gives EU Windsor Framework Deal the Hard Sell in Belfast,”
Politico , February 28, 2023.
90 See, for example, Northern Ireland Department for the Economy, “Minister Pitches the North’s Unique Business
Proposition to US Business Leaders,” press release, March 14, 2024.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   21 the Northern Ireland protocol/Windsor Framework as having a positive impact on Northern
Ireland’s economy and 6 1% regarded the post -Brexit arrangements as potentially beneficial.91
Some Northern Ireland retailers continue to report implementation problems with the post -Brexit
arrangements , and some  stakeholders point to  increased administrative burdens and costs f or
Northern Ireland businesses and consumers.92 An independent review of the Windsor Framework
published in September 2025 found that small - and medium -sized companies in Northern Ireland
faced “major problems” navigating the post -Brex it rule s.93 In Novemb er 2025, the UK
government announced £16 million (about $21 million) in new funding to support Northern
Ireland businesses in dealing with the new  rules. UK officials also express confidence that UK -
EU efforts to conclude a n SPS agreement for agri -food products will help reduce red tape and
lower costs for businesses and consumers in Northern Ireland.94
Constitutional Status and Border Poll Prospects
Brexit has revived questions about Northern Ireland ’s constituti onal status.  Sinn Fein has argued
that “Brexit changes everything”  and could generate greater support for a united Ireland.95 Since
the 2016 Brexit referendum, Sinn Fein has repeatedly called for a border poll  (a referendum on
whether Northern Ireland should remain pa rt of the UK or join the Republic of Ireland) in the
hopes of realizing its long -term goal of Irish unification.  As noted previously, t he Good Friday
Agreement provides for the possibility of a  border poll , in line with the consent principle . Any
decision to hold a border poll in Northern Ireland on its constitutional status rests with the UK
Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , who must call  one if it “appears likely” that “a majority of
those voting would express a wish that Northern Ireland should ce ase to be part of the United
Kingdom and form part of a united Ireland.”96
At present, opinion polls  indicate that more people  in Northern Ireland continue to support the
region ’s position as part of the UK.  A February 2024 poll found 54% in favor of Northern
Ireland’s continued position within the UK compared with 39% for a united Ireland.97 A poll
conducted by the Irish Times  in the second half of 2024  found that 48% of those polled supported
Northern Ireland remaining part of the UK versus 34% in fa vor of a united Ireland (with 14%
undecided). In comparison to previous Irish Times  polling in 2022 and 2023, the 2024 results
indicated a slight decrease in support for Northern Ireland’ s continued position within the UK and
a small uptick in support for a united Ireland.98
Several factors could influence whether  momentum builds for  a border poll in the medium to
longer term . As seen by Northern Ireland’s 2021 census results, demographics are shifting in
91 David Phinnemore and Katy Hayward, Testing the Temperature 1 4: What Do Voters in Northern Ireland Think
About the Windsor Framework  and UK -EU Relations ?, Queen’s University Belfast, Octo ber 202 5.
92 John Campbell, “Small Businesses Being ‘Crucified’ by Sea Border,” BBC News, December 4, 2024; John
Campbell, “Supermarkets Still Facing Sea Border Problems,” BBC News, February 22, 2025.
93 Government of the UK, Independent Re view of the Windsor Framework by the Rt Hon L ord Murphy , September 4,
2025, https://www.gov.uk/ government/ publications/ independent -review -of-the-windsor -framework -report .
94 Jayne McCormack, “UK Accepts Post -Brexit Trade Arrangements Review for NI,” BBC News, December 16, 2025.
95 Sinn Fein Discussion Document, Towards a United Ireland , November 2016.
96 UK Government, Northern Ireland Act 1998.
97 Suzanne Breen, “More People in NI Wou ld Vote to Stay Part of UK If Border Poll Was Called,” Belfast Telegraph ,
February 18, 2024.
98 Support for Northern Ireland remaining part of the UK was 50% in 2022 and 51% in 2023; support for Irish
unification was 27% in 2022 and 31% in 2023.  Pat Leahy, “Support for Irish Unification Growing in Northern Ireland,
Poll Finds,” Irish Times , February 7, 2025.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   22 Northern Ireland, with those of a Catholic background now outnumbering those of a Protestant
background.  The post -Brexit arrangements for Northern Ireland could lead to enhanced trade  ties
with Ireland and greater economic integration  (reports  indicate increase d cross -border trade  since
2021 ).99 Despite a decrease in vote share for Sinn Fein in elections in Ireland in 2024, Sinn Fein’s
electoral successes in Northern Irel and and key party leader Michelle O’Neill’s role as First
Minister could  keep political attention focused on  the question of a possible border poll .100
Societal attitudes in Northern Ireland are changing as well, especially among young people, who
may not b e as wedded to traditional religious or ethnic identities.  Analysts suggest tha t non -
aligned voters who do not identify as unionist or nationalist may be the decisive swing  bloc in
any future border poll  and that such voters are likely to be swayed on the question of Irish
unification more by its implications for issues such as the economy, health  care, and pensions
than by identity politics.101 The aforementioned Irish Times  poll conducted in 2024  found  that
roughly 18% of r espondents in Northern Ireland from a Catholic background were opposed to
Irish unification  and 16% were undecided .102
Irish unification also would be subject to Ireland’s consent and approval.  Opinion polls in Ireland
consistently show a relatively high level of support for unification (typically over 60%).103 Since
2021, t he Irish government has sponsored a “Shared Island” initiative to promote cro ss-border
cooperation and foster dialogue and research in support of building consensus on a “shared
future.”104 Irish officials have assert ed that voters, both north and south, must have a clear idea of
what a united Ireland would look like —and how unionists would be accommodated politically —
before any border poll is held.105 In 2025 , some Irish officials  and other stakeholders called for
the Irish government  to begi n planning for a border poll  and/or preparing for a united Ireland
(including Ireland’s new president, Catherine Connolly, while campaigning in October 2025  for
the largel y ceremonial position ).106
Some concerns exist in Ireland about unification, including  the possibility  that it  could spark
renewed loyalist violence in Northern Ireland  and its  potential ec onomic costs . The UK provides
99 Shawn Pogatchnik, “All -Ireland Trade Booming in Post -Brexit Economy,” Politico , February 15, 2022 ; Ryan
McAleer, “Trade in 2023: The Year When the Pro tocol Became the Windsor Framework,” Irish News , December 27,
2023 ; John Campbell, “Value of NI Sales and Exports Up, New Figures Suggest,” BBC News, December 11, 2024 ;
Ryan McAleer, “Value of Cross -border Trade Reached Record Levels in 2025, Says Irish St atistics Body, Irish News ,
February 17, 2026.
100 See, for example, Megan Specia, “Northern Ireland Has a Sinn Fein Leader. It’s a Landmark Moment,” New York
Times , February 3, 2024 ; Padraic Halpin and Amanda Ferguson, “Sinn Fein Struggles Deal Blow to Nationalists’
United Ireland Dream,” Reuters, November 21, 2024.
101 See, for example, Peter Foster and Laura Noonan, “Brexit Ignites the Debate About a United Ireland,” Financial
Times , April 6, 2021; Rory Carroll, “It’s Closer Now Than It’s Ever Been: Coul d There Soon Be a United Ireland?,”
Guardian , October 6, 2022; Megan Stack, “Is Ireland Headed for a Merger?,” New York Times , November 21, 2023.
102 Pat Leahy, “Support for Irish Unification Growing in Northern Ireland, Poll Finds,” Irish Times , February 7,  2025.
103 In the 2024  Irish Times  poll, for example, 64% of respondents in Ireland supported unification ; 17% were opposed.
Pat Leahy, “Support for Irish Unification Growing in Northern Ireland, Poll Finds,” Irish Times , February 7, 2025.
104 In April 2025, the Irish government recommitted to the Shared Island initiative, including announcing €1 billion
through 2035.  See Government of Ireland, Shared Island Initiative , https://www.gov.ie/ en/department -of-the-taoiseach/
campaigns/ shared -island/ .
105 See, for example, “Leo Varadkar Says Border Poll Not Appropriate at This Time,” BBC News , July 3, 2022; Jude
Webber, “Ireland’s Reunification Talk Grows Louder,” Finan cial Times , October 9, 2022.
106 Ireland’s  president is the  head of state and commander of the armed forces  but plays a largely ceremonial role .
President Connolly was inaugurated in November 2025 , for a seven -year term.  See, Mark Hennessy, “Irish
Government  Must Lead Unification Preparations, Says Varadkar,” Irish Times , October 8, 2025; Kevin Sharkey,
“Presidential Candidate Calls for Irish Unity Preparation,” BBC News, October 12, 2025 ; and “Irish Labour Leader
Calls for Border Poll Timeline,” BBC News, No vember 15, 2025.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   23 Northern Ireland annually with a roughly  £10 billion  (about $1 3 billion)  budget subsidy to make
up the shortfall in the region’s tax revenues . Although part of this subsidy helps to fund Northern
Ireland’s share of the UK’s national debt and defense spe nding—costs that would not be incurred
to the same extent  by Dublin —Northern Ireland’s budget deficit points to concerns about the
region’s economy  and reliance on the public sector . In a 2021 poll , 67% of people surveyed in
Ireland would support unification , but 54% reported they would be unwil ling to pay higher taxes
to fund  a united Ireland .107 In a December 2023  poll conducted in Irelan d, 52%  of respondents
believed that Irish unity would be costly in the short term , even if  beneficial in the long term.108
U.S. Policy and Congressional Interests
Support for the Peace Process
Successive U.S. A dministration s have viewed  the Good Friday Agreement as the best framework
for a lasting peace in Northern Ireland . The Clinton Administration was instrumental in helping
the parties forge the agreement, and the George W. Bush Administration strongly backed its full
implementation. U .S. officials welcomed the end to the IRA ’s armed campaign in 2005 and the
restoration of the devolved government  in 2007 . During the Obama Administration, in 2009,
then-U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton visited Northern Ireland, addressed the Assembly,
and urged Northern Ir eland ’s leaders to reach an agreement on devolving policing and justice
powers. In 2010, President Obama welcomed the resulting Hillsborough Agreement.
Like its predecesso rs, the first Trump Administration offered support and encouragement to
Northern Irel and. In 2017, a U.S. State Department spokesperson asserted that the United States
remained “ready to support efforts that ensure full implementation of the Good Friday Agreement
and subsequent follow -on cross -party agreements.”109 In 2020, President Trump appointed his
former acting Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney as U.S. Special Envoy to Northern Ireland .
President B iden repeated ly asserted a strong and enduring U.S. commitment to the Good Friday
Agreement .110 Following the  May 2022 Assembly election, the U.S. State Department  called on
Northern Ireland political leaders to work together to reestablish a functi oning power -sharing
government.111 President Biden visit ed Northern Irel and in April 2023 to mark  the peace accord’s
25th anniversary.112 In February 2024, t he Biden Administration  welcomed the restoration of
Northern Ireland’s devolved government.113
107 Fionnan Sheahan, “Majority Favour a United Ireland, but Just 22pc Would Pay for It,” Irish Independent , May 1,
2021; Eoin Burke -Kennedy, “What Would Be the Economic Costs and Benefits of a United Ireland?,” Irish Times ,
May 7, 2021.
108 John Garry et al., “Northern Protestants Pessimistic on Benefits of Irish Unity,” Irish Times , December 5, 2023.
109 U.S. Department of State, Office of the Spokesperson, “Statement on Northern Ireland Power -Sharing Talks,”
November 1, 2017.
110 See, for example, t he White House, “Remarks by President Biden and Prime Minister Martin of Ireland Before
Virtual Bilateral Mee ting,” March 17, 2022 ; and the White House, “Readout of President Joe Biden’s Meeting with
Taoiseach Leo Varadkar of Ireland,” March 17, 2023.
111 U.S. Department of State, “Northern Ireland Assembly Elections Results,” press release, May 7, 2022.
112 The Whit e House, “Remarks by President Biden Marking the 25th Anniversary of the Belfast/Good Friday
Agreement,” April 12 , 2023.
113 The White House, “Statement from President Joe Biden on the Restoration of the Northern Ireland Executive and
Assembly,” press releas e, February 3, 2024.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   24 Many Members of Congress have  supported the Northern Ireland peace process  over the past
three decades . In the 118th Congress , for example, the Senate agreed to S.Res. 157  (by unanimous
consent in 2023 ) reiterating support for the Good Friday Agreement a nd commemorating its 25th
anniversary.  During the March 2025 Friends of Ireland luncheon at the U.S. Capitol, Speaker
Mike Johnson stated, “we welcome continued efforts to promote and preserve” the Good Friday
Agreement.114 Over the years, congressional hea rings and  resolutions have address ed various
aspects of implementing  the Good Fr iday Agreement. A 2022  hearing  in the 117th Congress
centered on the role of young people  in maintaining peace in Northern Ireland.115
Some Members of Congress also have a long-standing interest in policing issues and human
rights in Northern Ireland . In March 2022, the House passed H.Res. 888  (117th Congress)
commemorating  the 50th anniversary of the 1972 Bloody Sunday  killings and calling  for justice
for the victims and their families.  Two hearings in 2022  discussed accountability and justice for
victims of the Troubles.116 In 2023, some Members of Congress sent letters to the UK government
expressing concerns about the UK legacy legislation.117 In July 2024, 25 Members sen t a letter to
new UK Prime Minister Starmer urging his government to swiftly repeal and replace the Legacy
Act.118 Some Members continue to follow the status of Troubles -related investigations and
incidents of suspected collusion between state security agen cies and paramilitary groups,
including the 1989 slaying of Belfast attorney Patrick Finucane. In November 2024, the Tom
Lantos Human Rights Commission held a hearing on the status of the Finucane case and UK
government plans to hold a public inquiry.119
In the 117th Congress, some Members urged  President Biden  to appoint a new special envoy to
Northern Ireland in light of heightened Brexit -related tension s and the stalemate in reestablishing
Northern Ireland’s devolved government .120 In December  2022, the U.S. State Department
announced the appointment of former Representative Joe Kennedy III as U.S. Special Envoy to
Northern Ireland for Economic A ffairs.  The Biden Administration tasked the  Special Envoy to
focus on supporting economic developmen t and gro wth in Northern Ireland —including through
attracting more U.S. investment to Northern Ireland —and strengthening people -to-people ties.121
In March 2025, some Members of Congress called on President Trump to appoint a new special
envoy to Northern I reland .122
114 Office of Representative Mike Johnson, “Speaker Johnson Hosts Annual Friends of Ireland Luncheon,” press
release, March 12, 2025.
115 House Foreign Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on Europe, Energy, the Environment and Cyber, The Role of
Young People in Fostering Peace  in Northern Ireland , 117th Cong., 2nd sess., April 28, 2022.
116 Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, Northern Ireland: Accountability at Risk , 117th Cong., 2nd sess., February
15, 2022; and House Foreign Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on Europe, Energy, the Environment and Cyber, Truth
and Accountability for Victims of the Troubles in Northern Ireland , 117th Cong., 2nd sess., July 15, 2022.
117 Office of Rep . Brendan Boyle, “Boyle, Keating, Fitzpatrick Lead Congressional Letter to British Prime Minister
Over Northern Ireland Legacy Legislation,” press release, January 20, 2023; Ray O’Hanlon, “Congress Members
Protest British Legacy Bill,” Irish Echo , August 13 , 2023.
118 Office of Rep . Brendan Boyle, “Boyle Leads Bipartisan Letter to New British Prime Minister Calling for Immediate
Repeal of Troubles Act,” press release, July 15, 2024.
119 Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, Northern Ireland: The Patrick Finucane C ase, 117th Cong., 2nd sess.,
November 19, 2024.
120 Suzanne Lynch, “US Politicians Urge Biden to Appoint Northern Ireland Envoy,” Irish Times , May 13, 2021; Kerry
O’Shea, “Congressional Group Reiterates U.S. Commitment to Northern Ireland,” IrishCentral.com,  August 5, 2022.
121 U.S. Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken, “Announcement of Joe Kennedy III as U.S. Special Envoy to Northern
Ireland for Economic Affairs,” press statement, December 19, 2022.
122 See, for example, Office of Representative Bill Keating, “ Keating Leads 36 Colleagues in Bipartisan Letter Urging
(continued...)
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   25 Views on Brexit ’s Implications for  Northern Ireland
As challenges emerged in implementing the post -Brexit arrangements for Northern Ireland, t he
Biden Administration stressed  that Brexit must not undermine the Northern Ireland peace process
or jeopardize the open bor der on the island of Ireland. The Biden Administration supported the
Northern Ireland protocol as “a way to manage the practical challenges around the EU single
market while preventing a return of a hard border ” on the island of Ireland  and welcomed the
subsequent Windsor Framework.123 Some Members of Congress also maintained that Brexit must
not impede the peace process.124 S.Res. 157  (agreed in the 118th Congress, as noted previously)
included an expression of  support for the Windsor Framework .
Some in Congress  have  tied their support for a possible future U.S. -UK free trade agreement to
protecting the peace process (negotiations on a post -Brexit U.S. -UK free trade agreement began
during the first Trump Administration but did not proceed under the  Biden Administration).  Both
H.Res. 585  (116th Congress, passed in 2019) and S.Res. 117  (117th Congress, passed in 2021)
reaffirmed support for the Good Friday Agreement and asserted that any future U.S. -UK trade or
other bilateral agreements  must consider Brexit’s impact on Northern Ireland. S.Res. 134  (117th
Congress, passed in 2022) expressed  support for concluding U.S. trade agreements with both the
UK and the EU  and noted  that doing so should be “contingent” upon a UK -EU agreement that
“fully protects and preserves the Good Friday Agreement.”
International Fund for Ireland
The United States has  provided development aid  to Northern Ireland primarily through the
International Fund for Ireland ( IFI), which  was created in 1986. T he UK  and Irish governments
established the IF I based on objectives in the Anglo -Irish Agreement of 1985, but the IFI is an
independent entity. It supports economic regeneration and social development projects in areas
most affected by the conflict  in Northern Ireland and in the border areas of the Re public of
Ireland; in doing so, the IFI has sought t o foster dialogue and reconciliation . According to the
U.S. State Department, as of 2022, the United States had contributed more than $549 million to
the IFI since its establishment.125 The EU, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand have provided
funding for the IFI  as well.  In the 1980s and 1990s, U.S. appropriations for the IFI averaged
around $23 million annually; in the 2000s, U.S. appropriations averaged $18 million each year .126
According to the IFI , the vast majority of projects supported with seed funding have been located
in disadvantaged areas that have suffered from high unemployment, a lack of facilities, and little
private sector investment. In its first two decades, IFI projects in Northern I reland and the
southern border counties focused on economic and business development and sectors such as
President Trump to Appoint a Special Envoy to Northern Ireland,” March 7, 2025; and Mark Hennessy, “Trump Urged
to Appoint NI Special Envoy to Support US Interests After Kennedy Departure,” Irish Time s, March 10, 2025.
123 The White House, “ Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on President Biden’s Upcoming
Virtual Bilateral with Ireland, ” March 17, 2021 ; Ray O’Hanlon, “Biden, Reps. Welcome Framework Deal,” Irish Echo ,
March 1, 2023.
124 See, for example, Office of Representative Nancy Pelosi, “Pelosi Statement on Windsor Framework,” press release,
February 27, 2023 .
125 U.S. Department of State, U.S. Relations with Ireland , fact sheet, June 2, 2022.
126 The Anglo -Irish Agreement Support Act of 1986 ( P.L. 99 -415) authorizes U.S. contributions to the International
Fund for Ireland.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service   26 tourism, agriculture, and technology. In 2006, the IFI announced it wou ld begin shifting its focus
toward projects aimed at promoting community reconci liation and overcoming past divisions.
Successive U.S. Administrations and some  Members of Congress have backed the IFI as a means
to promote economic development and encourage divided communities to work together. Support
for paramilitary and dissident gr oups in Northern Ireland traditionally has been strongest in
communities with high levels of unemployment and economic deprivation. Many observers  have
long viewed the creation of jobs and economic opportunity  as a key part of resolving the conflict
in Nor thern Ireland and have supported the IFI as part of the peace process.  At times , critics have
questioned  the IFI ’s effectiveness, viewing certain IFI projects as largely wasteful  or as
potentially reinforcing sectarianism by requiring project recipients an d attendees to identify their
religion or community background in an attempt to ensure cross -community participation.127
Starting in FY2011, successive Administrations allocate d funds from Economic Support Fund
(ESF) resources to the IFI  (in the absence of a congressional specification)  in the form of a grant
for IFI activities to support peace and reconciliation programs . The United States provided $2.5
million per year  in ESF  to the IFI between FY2011 and FY2014 ; $750,000 per year from FY2015
to FY2019 ; $2 million for FY2020 ; $2.5 million for FY2021 ; $3 million for FY2022; and $4
million for FY2023 .128 With the Trump Administration’s decision to pause and review foreign
assistance in January 2025 and reported subsequent cancellation of assistance awards, it is unclear
what funds, if any, might be  allocated for the IFI in the future . Some Members of Congress
reportedly have voiced support for retaining U.S. funding for the  IFI.129
Author Information
Kristin Archick
Section Research Manager
127 See, for example, Sean Byrne et al., “Th e Role of the International Fund for Ireland and the European Union Peace
II Fund in Reducing Violence and Sectarianism in Northern Ireland,” International Politics , vol. 47, no. 2 (2010), pp.
229-250.
128 As reported for each fiscal year in the U.S. Departm ent of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs’ annual
Congressional Budget Justifications.
129 Ray O’Hanlon, “Congress Members Write Trump, Rubio Over IFI,” Irish Echo , September 3, 2025.
Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests
Congressional Research Service  R46259 · VERSION 17 · UPDATED  27
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan
shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and
under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other
than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in
connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not
subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in
its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or
material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to
copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.