Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Updated March 6, 2026
Congressional Research Service
https://crsreports.congress.gov
R48072
Congressional Research Service
SUMMARY
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Longstanding U.S. ties with Kenya  have deepened over the past decade , as successive U.S.
administrations have viewed the country as a strategic partner in Africa.  Former President Joe
Biden hosted Kenya’s President William Ruto for a state visit in 2024, and he designated Kenya
as the Uni ted States’ first Major Non -NATO Ally in Sub -Saharan Africa, a designation that
conveys defense trade and security cooperation benefits . Ruto was  the first African leader to be
invited by a U.S. president for a state visit since 2008. The Trump Administrat ion has similarly
appeared to value the bilateral relationship with Kenya, describing the country as one of the
United States’ strongest partners  in the region .
Kenya became an important U.S. counterterrorism partner in Africa in the aftermath of Al Qaeda’s 1998 bombing of the U.S.
embassies in Kenya and Tanza nia. In 2011, the country launched military operations in neighboring Somalia against the
regional Al Qaeda affiliate, Al Shabaab, and subsequently joined the UN -authorized African Union stabilization mission
there. Al Shabaab launched attacks against soft  targets frequented by foreigners, including U.S. citizens, in Kenya’s capital,
raising the group’s international profile. In 2020, Al Shabaab killed a U.S. servicemember and two U.S. contactors in an
attack on Manda Bay Airfield, a Kenyan base used by the  U.S. military near the Somali border. Al Shabaab, which U.S.
officials now describe as Al Qaeda’s largest and wealthiest affiliate, continues to pose a threat in Kenya and the broader
region, and Kenya hosts an expanding U.S. military presence at  Manda Ba y that supports  regional counterterrorism efforts.
The 2024 state visit highlighted Kenya’s importance to the United States not only as a diplomatic and security partner in Eas t
Africa, but as an African counterpart on shared global priorities. Kenya participated in Operation Prosperity Guardian, a
maritime taskforce launched by the United States in response to Houthi attacks in the Red Sea,  and it has been one of the only
African members of the Ukraine Defense Contact Group . Kenya’s 2024 deployment, w ith U.S. support, to lead the
Multinational Security Support mission in Haiti, further elevated U.S. -Kenya ties, despite outstanding questions about the
country’s human rights trajectory.
Kenya is often characterized as a comparatively stable and democrat ic anchor state in a troubled region . Political unrest has
threatened its stability several times, however, most recently in 2024, when a protest movement led by young Kenyans  and a
violent state response spurred a political crisis . Facing a heavy debt bur den and the threat of default , President Ruto  tried to
raise taxes  that year , which fanned public  anger amid rising  costs of living. When legislators passed the tax bill while t ens of
thousands were in the streets protesting , some demonstrators stormed the  parliament. Dozens were  killed in the police
response to the protests , and  over a thousand people were arrested. The nationwide protests highlight ed public frustration not
only with economic hardships, but with public sector corruption and a perceived lac k of accountability . The public display of
discontent was an unprecedented challenge  for the government , and  Ruto ultimately reversed the tax bill, reshuffled his
cabinet, and brought several opposition politicians into his government  to defuse tensions . Scores of  government critics were
abducted or killed in the aftermath of the protests, and a series of forcible extraditions of foreign dissidents from Kenya
prompted accusations that the government was enabling transnational repression. Ruto has faced calls for his ouster and
allegations, including from former allies, of corruption , but his alliance with elements of the opposition co -opted some of his
most vocal critics. With the opposition divided, President Ruto is, by some accounts , favored to win re -election in 2027.
Kenya hosts one of the largest U.S. embassies in Africa, routinely receives senior U.S. officials for visits, and is a freque nt
destination for congressional travel. It has been a leading beneficiary of tariff benefits under the African Grow th and
Opportunity Act (AGOA; P.L. 106 -200, as amended), which Congress has extended through the end of 2026. Under the first
Trump Administration, the United States and Kenya launched negotiations on a free trade agreement —it would have been the
first in Sub -Saharan Africa. The Biden Administration  did not continue those talks, instead launching a Strategic Trade and
Investment Partnership (STIP). Kenya, which has faced a 10% tariff under President Trump’s tariff policy, has engaged the
Trump Administration in talks aimed at reaching a new bilateral  trade arrangement.
The Trump Administration has maintained a warm relationship with Kenya, despite the tariff issue. Administration officials
have described the country as a “ longstanding American ally ” and emphasized U.S. appreciation for Kenya’s deployment to
Haiti and leadership on regional peace and security issues. The country, which  has regularly ranked among the top recipients
of U.S . foreign aid globally, has been affected by the Administration’s foreign a id cuts, which have spurred congressional
debate and legal action. In late 2025, Kenya became the first country to sign a bilateral agreement with the Trump
Administration on global  health cooperation. Under the five -year deal,  which faces a court challenge in Kenya,  the country  is
expected to gradually assume greater financial responsibility as U.S. assistance for health programs in the country declines.
R48072
March 6, 2026
Lauren Ploch Blanchard
Specialist in African Affairs
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   Contents
Overview  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  1
Politics  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  3
The Economy  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 8
Climate Change and “Green Growth”  ................................ ................................ .............................  9
Humanitarian Issues  ................................ ................................ ................................ ......................  10
Security Issues  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  12
Selected Foreign Relations Issues  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 13
Wildlife and Enviro nmental Conservation  ................................ ................................ ....................  17
U.S. Relations and Assistance  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 18
Figures
Figure 1. Kenya  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  3
Contacts
Author Information  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................  24
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   1 Overview
Successive U.S. Administrations have viewed Kenya as an anchor state and a strategic partner in
East Africa, and as critical to counterterrorism efforts in the region. The country is Sub-Saharan
Africa’s third -largest economy and a regional hub for transpo rtation and finance. It hosts the UN
headquarters in Africa, one of four major UN offices globally. A  popular  tourism destination
known for its biodiversity and conservation efforts, Kenya is a regional leader in clean energy,
drawing roughly  90% of its el ectricity from renewable sources.1 It has a vibrant tech scene that
has been dubbed the “Silicon Savannah.” Kenya’s government has pursued opportunities to speak
on behalf of Africa in global forums, including on climate change , conservation,  and debt rel ief.
Kenya hosts one of the largest U.S. embass ies in Africa and U.S. forces supporting regional
counterterrorism operations. In 2024, the Biden Administration designated it as the United States’
first Major Non -NATO Ally in Sub -Saharan Africa. Kenya  has often  ranked among the top U.S.
foreign aid recipients globally , with h ealth funding compris ing the greates t share of aid , and it has
been among the largest African recipients of U.S. counterterrorism assistance. Congressional
interests in Kenya are wide -ranging, and it is a frequent destination for congressional travel;
legislative action has focused predominately on democracy, human rights, and terrorism concerns.
While U.S. -Kenya ties are close, Kenya’s government also maintains a strategic partnership w ith
the People’s Republic of China (hereafter China), its largest trading partner and bilateral creditor.
Economic hardship, corruption , historical land disputes, and police abuses have fueled grievances
in Kenya, and political  violence has threatened the  country’s reputation as an anchor state in a
volatile region several times . Perceived impunity for state corruption and other abuses has been a
trigger for protests, and police have often respond ed with violence.2 Freedom House ranks Kenya
“Partly Free” in its  Freedom in the World  index, noting that despite regular elections, pervasive
corruption and police brutality remain serious problems, and while Kenya’s media and civil
society are vibrant, journalists and human rights defenders face restrictive laws and intimidation.
Kenya’s 2022 elections were the most recent  in a series of polls that have tested its democratic
institutions. With incumbent President Uhuru Kenyatta term limited, the race was a close contest
between his deputy, William Ruto, and longtime opposition leader Raila  Odinga. In a twist,
Kenyatta backed Odinga, his formal rival, over Ruto , who led a populist, anti -establishment
campaign  and won with just over 50% of the vote.  Shadows from previous election -related
violence and corruption allegations linger  over Preside nt Ruto, as they did over Kenyatta; both
once faced charges of crimes against humanity at the International Criminal Court (ICC).3
President Ruto has sought to court foreign investment  and position Kenya as a global voice on
climate change and an advocat e, on Africa’s behalf, for climate finance and international financial
system  reforms .4 Politics at home , however, sometimes compete with his international agenda.
His administration has faced major economic challenges, including a large debt burden, infl ation,
and high unemployment. He has  promis ed to transform the economy and reduce  the cost of
living, but some of his policy decisions have been unpopular .
1 Washington Post , “Kenyan president aims to attract green investment during U.S. visit,” May 17, 2024.
2 The Conversation , “Why violence is a hallmark of Kenyan policing. And what needs to change,” June 5, 2020; The
New Hum anitarian, “Kenya police violence is colonial and institutional, as well as political,” June 26, 2025.
3 The Economist , “Who is William Ruto?,” August 16, 2022 and “Will William Ruto serve the people or himself and
his pals?” October 25, 2022; and The N ew York Review , “The Political Education of William Ruto,” March 8, 2023.
4 See, e.g., Financial Times , “Kenyan leader sa ys World Bank and IMF are ‘hostage’ to rich nations,” June 23, 2023;
The Africa Report , “Ruto wants ‘fair conversation’ over climate finance for Africa,” June 20, 2023.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   2 Tax hikes  and cost of living concerns have fueled public frustration and protests against Ruto’s
government. Police violence against protesters and a  spate of reported abductions and enforced
disappearances of government critics  in 2024 -2025 —which human rights groups attributed to
security agents —prompted calls for the president’s ouster . Ruto  has reshu ffled his cabinet several
times, and his former deputy, Rigathi Gachagua, who was impeached in late 2024, has become a
vocal critic. Gachagua is among several politicians that may challenge Ruto for the presidency in
the 2027 elections. The upcoming electi ons will be the first in over twenty years in which Odinga,
who passed away in late 2025 at age 80, is not on the ballot.
Almost three decades after the 1998 U.S. embassy bombing, Kenya continues to grapple with
terrorist threats, primarily  from the Somal ia-based Al Qaeda  affiliate Al Shabaab .5 Attacks near
the Somali border have been  more common, but two  high-profile attacks in Nairobi have
underscored Al Shabaab’s reach. A U.S. citizen was among 21 people killed in the 2019 DusitD2
hotel attack , and  several Americans were wounded in the 2013 Westgate Mall attack, in which at
least 67 people died. Al Shabaab killed a U.S. servicemember and two U.S. contractors in a 2020
attack on Manda Bay Airfield, a Kenyan base used by the U.S. military near the Som ali border.
Kenya first deployed troops into Somalia in 2011, to create a buffer zone against Al Shabaab, and
it later joined the UN -backed African Union (AU) mission in Somalia. The United States has
provided substantial security assistance to support Ke nya and other countries contributing troops
to the AU mission, and the U.S. military, which has conducted counterterrorism operations in
Somalia for over two decades, conducts occasional “collective self -defense” airstrikes in support
of AU and Somali forc es. Al Shabaab, which has drawn recruits from Kenya’s minority Muslim
population, says its attacks in Kenya are, in part, retaliation for Kenya’s military role in Somalia
and characterizes U.S. and Kenyan operations there as part of a Western crusade again st Muslims.
In addition to its Somalia deployment, Kenya has led the UN -authorized Multinational Security
Support mission in Haiti , with U.S. support, since 2024 . Amid competing domestic  and regional
security concerns, the deployment of Kenyan Police for the mission —which was slowed by legal
disputes and hamstrung by shortfalls in  international assistance —has been controversial
domestically, but it has been praised by both the Biden and Trump Administrations.
5 The 1998 Al Qaeda attack on the U.S. embassy killed  213 people , including 12 U.S. cit izens,  and injured  over 4,000.
Al Qaeda operatives simultaneously attacked the U.S. embassy in Tanzania, killing 11 people and injuring over 85.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   3 Figure 1. Kenya
Source: CRS graphic. Data from CIA World Factbook, U.S. Census Bureau International Database, UNAIDS,
and IMF; 2026 estimates unless noted.
Comparative size: slightly smaller than
Texas
Population:  57 million, 2.12% growth
Official languages:  English and Swahili
Religions:  Christian  86%, Muslim 1 1%,
other 2%
Life expectancy:  71.9 years
Median age:  21.8 years
Population under 1 5 years of age:
35.1%
Fertility rate: 3.04 children born/woman
HIV/AIDS ad ult prevalence rate:  3.2%
(2023)
Adult literacy: 83% | male 8 6% female
80% (202 2) GDP:  $140 billion , 4.86% growth,  $2,595 per
capita
GDP composition:  agriculture 21%, industry
16%, services 56% (2024)
External debt:  $41.8 billion (2025)
Health expenditure: 4.5% of GDP (2021)
Electricity access:  79% (2023)
Major exports | partners:  tea, cut flowers,
garments, gold, tropical fruits | Uganda 10%, USA
10%, UAE 8%, Netherlands 8%, Pakistan 6%
(2023)
Major imports | partne rs: refined petroleum ,
palm oil, wheat, plastics, garments | China 22%,
UAE 14%, India 10 %, Saudi Arabia 5 %, Malaysia
4% (2023)
Politics
Background. Kenya was essentially a one -party state from 1964 to 1991. After the transition to
a multiparty system, ethnic identity, rather than ideology, became the primary line of political
cleavage. No ethnic group in Kenya has a large enough voting bloc for its po litical leaders to gain
or maintain power alone, however, so politicians form cross -ethnic political alliances, which
periodically shift. This fluidity has helped fuel electoral violence and corruption .
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   4 For decades after independence, the ethnic groups of Kenya’s first and second presidents, the
Kikuyu and Kalenjin (the first and third largest ethnic groups), were seen to disproportionately
benefit from the allocation of state resources, namely land, government jobs, and contracts. The
heartlands of these g roups, the central highlands and adjacent central Rift Valley, saw the largest
state investment in schools, roads, and health services. Western Kenya (home to the second and
fourth largest groups, the Luhya and Luo) and the predominantly Muslim coast and n ortheast
were comparatively underdeveloped. The perception of ethnic favoritism fostered divisions.6
Daniel arap Moi, Kenya’s long -ruling second president (1978 -2002), dominated politics through
repression, patronage, and electoral manipulation until, und er donor and domestic pressure, he
retired. The country’s opposition parties came together, briefly, to defeat his chosen successor,
Uhuru Kenyatta (son of first president Jomo Kenyatta), in the 2002 elections.
The crisis that followed the next elections,  in 2007, remains important for understanding Kenyan
politics today. Political realignments prior to t he polls created a particularly volatile ethnic
dynamic, and when incumbent President Mwai Kibaki , a Kikuyu , was declared the winner in a
close race amid rigging allegations, protests followed and violence ensued, largely along ethnic
lines. Some of the worst violence was between Kikuyu and Kalenjin , whose politic ians backed
Kibaki’s main opponent, Odinga, a Luo. Over six weeks, roughly  1,300 people were ki lled and
600,000 displaced; over 100,000 private properties and almost 500 government properties were
destroyed. The crisis hit the economy hard. Kenya was effectively paralyzed for two months
before a power -sharing deal was brokered between Kibaki and Odinga by former UN Secretary -
General Kofi Annan, with U.S. support. Kibaki formed a coalition government with Odinga in a
new prime minister post, agreeing to draft a new constitution and address sensitive land issues.
ICC Cases.  After Kenya, an ICC state party, failed to create a tribunal to prosecute those found
by an international commission of inquiry to be responsible for some of the worst  post-election
violence , the ICC confirmed charges against four people  in 2012.7 Among them we re Deputy
Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta and prominent Kalenjin politician William Ruto , two former Moi
protégés who were on opposing sides in 2007 ; both  were accused of criminal responsibility for
crimes against humanity. The Prosecutor accused Ruto of , among other crimes,  involvement in
the burning of a church where hundreds of people, mostly Kikuyu, had sought refuge; at least 28
died in the attack. Kenya’s government objected to the cases, and they  were prominent in the
2013 elections, when Kenyatta and Ruto ran together on a presidential ticket , portray ing the cases
as an international conspiracy and emblematic of racial bias by the ICC. The race was extremely
close: Kenyatta avoided a runoff against opposition leader Odinga by less than 1% of votes.
Political interference and witness intimidation reportedly plagued the ICC trials. The ICC
Prosecutor withdrew the charges against Kenyatta in 2014, and the judges declared a mistrial in
Ruto ’s case in 2016, citing witness intimidation and political meddling.  “There was a relentless
campaign to identify individuals who could serve as Prosecution witnesses in this case and ensure
that they would not testify,” per the Prosecutor.8 Neither Kenyatta nor Ruto were acquitted,
leaving the possibility of future prose cution but allowing them to run for reelection in 2017. The
ICC opened a new trial in 2022 , against a Kenyan lawyer accused of witness tampering “for the
benefit, and in coordination with” Ruto; the lawyer  died weeks after Ruto took office.9
6 For more, see Michela Wrong, It’s Our Turn to Eat: The Story of a Kenyan Whistle -Blower , Harper Perennial: 20 10.
7 The Commission of Inquiry’s report is available at https://www.knchr.org/ Portals/ 0/Reports/ Waki_Report.pdf .
8 Statement of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC), Fatou Bensouda, regarding Trial Chamber’s
decision to vacate charges against Messrs William Samoi Ruto and Joshua Arap Sang,  April 6, 2016.
9 The Prosecutor v. Paul Gicheru, Document Containing Charges,  ICC-01/09 -01/20 -125-Conf -AnxA , March 12 , 2021 .
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   5 The 2017 Elec tion Overturned, Shifting Alliances.  Violence, rigging allegations, and police
brutality marred Kenyatta ’s rematch with Odinga in 2017. The opposition challenge d Kenyatta’s
win at the Supreme Court, which nullified the presidential result in a landmark rul ing, citing
“irregularities and illegalities in the transmission of results that affected the integrity of the poll.”
The court ordered a new election but the opposition boycotted it , giving Kenyatta an easy victory.
The opposition contested his legitimacy  and held a mock inauguration to name Odinga “the
people’s president.” The government declared it treasonous, shutting down media outlets and
arresting opposition figures. Authorities ignored court orders o n the crackdown, leading Kenya’s
chief justice , among others,  to warn that the government’s disregard for the judiciary threatened
the rule of law.10 Some Members of Congress and former U.S. diplomats also raised alarm.11
When Kenyatta and Odinga announced a deal , facilitated  by the United States , to end the standoff
in 2018 , Ruto viewed  it as a betrayal, and a political reconfiguration ensued.12 Kenyatta and
Odinga’s effort to make constitutional changes, ostensibly to make politics more inclusive, was
seen by some observers as intended to extend Kenyatta’s power and was blocked by the judiciary.
The 2022 Elections. Kenya  held elections in  2022 amid public frustration with high living costs,
disillusion with the political class, and fear of another post -election crisis. Odinga had the
incumbent president’s support for his fifth presidential bid , but th e alliance alienated some
opposition voters.13 For some, Kenyatta epitomized “the establishment.” Ruto capitalized on
economic frustrations and, with a Kikuyu running mate, divided the Kikuyu vote.14 Odinga also
had a Kikuyu running mate , Martha Karua, Kenya’s first female candidate on a major ticket .
Ruto, reportedly among Kenya’s richest men, had served for years in government, but during the
race he emphasized his humble upbringing, casting himself as a champion for the poor and an
outsider running against the establishment. He pitched a “bottom up ” economic plan and pledged
to reduce the cost of living. His alleged role in organizing violence against Kikuyu after the 2007
elections appears not to have dissuaded  many Kikuyu from voting for him. Some analysts note
that Kikuyu politician s had long bra nded Odinga as a destabilizing force, and , by some accounts,
economic frustration and grievances against the Kenyatta family factored into votes for Ruto.15
Ruto narrowly avoid ed a runoff against Odinga,  gaining 50.5% of the votes  cast. Turnout, the
lowest  in 15 years, hinted at voter apathy, particularly among young Kenyans. Observers
described the election s as more peaceful and transparent than the preceding  three , but like past
polls they were marred by rigging allegations and other controversies. A reco rd number of women
ran in the 2022 elections , and more won parliamentary seats than ever before. Seven female
governors were elected. The 2022 polls were reportedly among Africa’s most expensive, both in
terms of campaign spending and election administrati on. Kenya invested heavily in election
technology, including biometric registration, to improve the credibility of the process; whether it
10 Daily  Nation  (Nairobi), “Maraga defends Judiciary, says court orders must be obeyed,” February 7, 2018.
11 Sen. Cory Booker and Chris Coons, “Statement on Current Political Situation in Kenya,” February 7, 20 18; Mark
Bellamy and Johnnie Carson, “How and why the US should intervene in Kenya,” African Arguments, February 2018.
12 Al Jazeera , “All you need to know about the clash between Kenyatta and Ruto,” August 18, 2019 ; Daily Nation ,
“Ruto: Handshake between Uhuru and Raila was a stab in the back,” March 6, 2022.
13 See, e.g., Deutsche Welle , “Kenya’s disillusioned youth shun election,” August 5, 2022; and Nanjala Nyabola, “The
Kenyan Kakistocracy,” The Nation (New York City) , August 17, 2022.
14 Ruto’s running mate, Rigathi Gachagua , faced corruption and money laundering charges during the 2022 elections.
Before the polls, a court ordered him to forfeit $1.7 million in state funds it determined he had illicitly acquired.
15 Al Jazeera , “Courting the Kikuyu: Keny an politicians split biggest voting bloc,” August 6, 2022; and Nic
Cheeseman, et al., “Three critical questions will determine the Kenyan election,” The Elephant,  July 26, 2022.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   6 improved public trust is debated.16 After Ruto took office, Kenyan courts dropped corruption
cases against his runnin g mate and several of his cabinet appointees at the request of the director
of public prosecutions, whom Ruto later appointed as intelligence chief.17
2024 Protests. In June 2024, young Kenyans —dubbed “Gen Z” —organized protests against the
government’s Finance Bill, which proposed $2.7 billion in new taxes to lower  the budget deficit
and borrowing. Protesters argued that the tax hikes would raise the cost of living as Kenyans  were
already struggling, deter inve stors, and choke the economy. They criticized the  government’s
spending choices, including on foreign travel, government pay raises, renovations, and the
creation of new executive branch offices, such as those of the first lady and deputy first lady.18
Ostentatious displays of wealth by some legislators and cabinet members fueled  ire.19 When
police responded to the initial demonstrations  with tear gas, water cannons, arrests, and gunfire,
protests grew, and reported abductions by security forces exacerbated  public anger .20 Tens  of
thousands were protest ing in Nairobi and other cities  when  the parliament passed the bill on June
25, 2024 , which spurred outrage. Hours later, as police fired on demonstrators outside the gates of
parliament, killing several peopl e, some protesters stormed the complex.
The protests were unprecedented in scale , highlight ing widespread frustration. Polls before the
2022 elections suggested that Kenyans saw the country heading in the wrong direction ; the
economy was the top issue the y wanted the government to address, followed by corruption and
unemployment.21 Ruto campaigned on these issues . Protesters charged that he failed to deliver.22
Ruto initially took a tough stance on what he termed  the “treasonous events” o f June 25, but he
later withdrew the tax bill and pledged spending cuts, a pay freeze, and reforms.23 The U.S. and
other Western embassies express ed concern about the violence, and Secretary of State Antony
Blinken engaged Ruto on the  situation .24 Two weeks later, Ruto dismissed his cabinet and
promised a “broad -based” new government. When protests continued, however, Ruto accused the
U.S.-based Ford Foundation of sponsoring anarchy and violence by financing civi c groups that he
claime d had mobiliz ed the protests , and he reappointed several of the ministers he had sacked .25
At least 60 people died and over 600 were injured around the 2024 protests and over 1,370 people
were arrested.26 Human rights group s subsequently  raised alarm over dozens  of abductions of
16 The East African , “Polls body on the spot as Kenyans prepare for region’s most expensive election,” May 6, 2022 ;
Gabrielle Lynch, “Kenya’s elections are proof of change since 2007 violence, but more reform is needed,” The
Conversation, September 6, 2022.
17 On Kenyan civil society concerns, see, e.g., Kenya Human Rights Commission, “Nomination by President William
Ruto of Mr. Noordin Haji for appointment of spy chief is an affront to the constitution of Kenya 2010,” May 21, 2023.
18 The Economist , “A new breed of protest has left Kenya’s president tottering,” June 27, 2024 .
19 Ellen Ioanes, “What Kenya’s deadly protests are really about,”  Vox, June 29, 2024 ; Africa Report , “Kenya: How
opulence of Ruto’s allies sparked public anger before protests,” July 1, 2024 .
20 Statement by the Police Reforms Working Group Kenya, June 25 , 2024.
21 Afrobarometer, “For the first time in a decade, Kenyans see management of the economy as their most important
problem,” December 26, 2023 and “Dissatisfaction, disengagement mark outlook of young Kenyans,” October 3, 2023.
22 TIFA Research, “Year -end poll: Kenyans’ Reflections of 2023,” December 29, 2023.
23 Bloomberg , “Kenya prepares spending cuts after scrapping $2.3 billion taxes,” June 28, 2024.
24 U.S. Embassy Nairobi, “Joint Statement by Ambassadors and High Commissioners on Protests,” June 25 , 2024;
State Department, “Secretary Blinken’s Call with Kenyan President William Ruto,” June 26, 2024.
25 VOA , “Ruto falsely accuses Ford Foundation of funding violence in Kenya,” July 25, 2024.
26 Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNCHR), State of Human Rights in Kenya , November 20, 2024.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   7 government critics and killings  that they attributed to state agents as a crackdown on dissent .27 In
early 2025 , a cabinet member , Justin Muturi, accused Kenya’s intelligence service of being
behind the abduction of his son during the 2024 protests .28 Muturi was Kenya’s Attorney General
during the 2024 protests (he lost the post when Ruto sacked most of his cabinet and was then
appointed to a different ministry).
Political Realignments.  In late 2024, Kenya’s parliament  impeach ed Deputy President  Rigathi
Gachagua, who faced allegations of corruption, inciting ethnic divisions, and support ing the 2024
protests. His impeachment, pushed by the president’s allies, highlighted tensions in Ruto’s
coalition and shifting political allianc es. Gachagua , who helped mobilize Kikuyu voters for Ruto
in 2022,  has hinted  he may run against Ruto  in 2027 and has sought new allies, including former
President Kenyatta, Odinga’s former running mate Martha Karua, and  Justin Muturi . Muturi has
leveled se rious corruption allegations against Ruto , implicating him in controversial government
deals worth over $2 billion with India’s Adani Group and a purported money laundering scheme
with Russian oligarchs .29 Ruto cancelled the Adani deals in late 2024 after Adani’s  directors were
charged in U.S. court with bribery and fraud. Gachagua has also accused Ruto of personal
business deals with insurgent groups in Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).30
President Ruto, meanwhile, has deepened his allianc e with Raila Odinga’s party, the Orange
Democratic Movement (ODM). Ruto was part of ODM from 2007, when he backed Odinga’s
presidential bid, until 2013, when he joined Kenyatta’s presidential ticket against Odinga. Ruto
mended ties with Odinga during the 2 024 protests and appointed several ODM politicians to
government posts, and he later backed Odinga’s failed bid to lead the African Union Commission
(the body’s secretariat). In early 2025, Ruto and Odinga announced an agreement under which
their parties w ould work together. The deal, reminiscent of Kenyatta and Odinga’s 2018
rapprochement, has divided the opposition.  After Odinga died in late 2025, his brother Oburu, 82,
became the acting head of the party and formalized ODM’s exit from the Azimio la Umoja
coalition. ODM faces internal divisions as some in the party question the deal with Ruto and
oppose backing him in 2027.31 The Azimio coalition, meanwhile, is now led by Kalonzo
Musyoka, with backing from Kenyatta. Musyoka, 72, served as Kenya’s vice president from 2008
to 2013 and was Odinga’s running mate in 2013 and 2017.
The political landscape for the 2027 elections is still unfolding, but a crowded field of potential
contenders appear to be positioning to challenge Ruto’s re -election bid, and the youth vote could
be decisive. Voting behavior in Kenya suggests that youth political participation declined over the
past dec ade, and it is unclear whether the mobilization seen in the 2024 protests will translate to
greater participation in elections. More educated than previous generations, young Kenyans are
using new strategies to engage politically, but they also face new fo rms of repression.32 The “ Gen
27 KNCHR, “Surge of abductions and killings in Kenya: A call for immediate action and accountability,” October 31,
2024; CNN , “Kenyan government critics m ysteriously disappeared. They came back silenced.,” January 9 2025; Al
Jazeera , “‘Very worrying’: Fear stalks Kenya as dozens of government critics abducted,” March 4, 2025; Defenders
Coalition, State of the Nation Address by National Civil Society Organiz ations, Press Statement, April 14, 2025.
28 BBC News , “Kenyan minister alleges intelligence agency behind his son’s abduction,” January 15, 2025.
29 Citizen  (Nairobi), “‘Irredeemably corrupt’: Muturi drops bombshell linking President Ruto to shady multi -billion
deals,” April 4, 2025.
30 Middle East Eye , “Kenya’s former vice president calls for Ruto to be sanctioned over Sudan war,” April 10, 2025.
31 See, e.g.,  Africa Confidential , “The battle for ODM’s soul,” February 20, 2026; The Africa Report , “Kenya: Is
Winnie Odinga positioning herself to inherit her father Raila’s political mantle?” December 10, 2025.
32 Amnesty International, “This Fear, Everyone is Feel ing It”: Tech -facilitated Violence Against Young Activists in
Kenya , November 19, 2025; The Guardian , “‘This is lawfare’: Kenya ‘weaponising the law’ to silence critics and
protesters,” August 8, 2025.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   8 Z” movement, which has described itself as “tribeless” and “leaderless” —salient in a political
environment long marked by ethnic identities —has expressed  disaffection with the current
political class , but whether that will tra nslate into a voting bloc remains to be seen .33
LGBTQ Rights
Human rights advocates have raised concern that Kenya could follow Uganda in passing strict anti -LGBTQ
legislation, an issue that has drawn concern from some Members of Congress.34 A colonial -era law criminalizes
“acts against the order of nature,” but Kenya has been a relative refuge from persecution for LGBTQ persons in
East Africa. Its Supreme Court ruled in 2023 that the government’s refusal to register an LGBTQ rights group was
discriminatory and unconstitutional, and the court affirmed the community’s right to associate. Ruto, who has said
there is “no room” for homosexuality in Kenya, expressed respect for the court’s decision but said, “it doesn’t
mean we have to agree with i t.”35 The ruling prompted a backlash, led by conservative politicians and evangelical
churches, and anti -gay protests.36 Legislation proposed in 2023, the Family Protection Bill, echoed Uganda’s anti -
homosexuality law: if adopted, it would criminalize “pro moting” homosexuality; punish same -sex relations with 10 -
50 years in jail and “aggravated homosexuality” (defined in the bill as same -sex relations with a minor or disabled
person, or when a terminal disease is passed) with the death penalty; and ban LGBTQ  parades and assemblies,
related advocacy, and cross -dressing. The bill was never formally tabled and remains stalled.
The Economy
Kenya is East Africa’s largest economy and one of the fastest growing and most diverse in Africa.
Agriculture is the backbon e of the economy, but services, manufacturing , construction,  and real
estate also drive growth. The services sector leads in job creation , and the  telecommunications
industry is a global pioneer in mobile banking technology. U.S. government reports suggest  that
Kenya has fostered a positive investment climate, but corruption often influences the outcome of
public tenders there and is a barrier to doing business.37
With almost 40% of  the population under age 14, a coming surge in the labor force will present
challenges and opportunities. Kenya ranks as a lower -middle income country, but over a third of
the population lives in poverty, per the World Bank.38 Kenya’s  economy has ralli ed since its
COVID -19-related recession of 2020, but many Kenyans continue to  struggl e due to inflation.
Former President Kenyatta sought to improve Kenya’s business environment and attract foreign
investment during his tenure, but his development agenda and spending ballooned public debt.39
China financ ed and built major infrastructure projects, including a railway and a port near the
coastal town of Lamu, a UNESCO World Heritage site.40 The railway cost a fifth of the national
33 Gabrielle Lynch, “Kenya has changed: Gen -Z protests and what they mean,” Democracy in Africa, July 16, 2024.
34 Reuters, “Kenya could follow Uganda as East African nations wage war on LGBTQ rights,” June 23, 2023; The
Guardian, “Exiles from Uganda’s harsh anti -gay laws fear ‘moral panic’ legislation could fo llow them,” July 7, 2025.
On congressional concerns, see, e.g., H.Res. 1324  in the 118th Congress and Congressional Equality Caucus, “Equality
Caucus on Ugandan Court Failing to O verturn Anti -Homosexuality Act,” April 3, 2024.
35 Reuters, “’No room’ for gays in Kenya, says deputy president,” May 4, 2015; and “For LGBTQ Kenyans, court win
prompts backlash as threats escalate,” April 20, 2023.
36 The Guardian , “Kenya’s LGBTQ community wins bittersweet victory in battle for rights,” March 3, 2023; Evie
Brown, “Navigating the politics of backlash: LGBTQ+ rights and the Family Protection Bill in Kenya,” ODI Global,
November 5, 2025.
37 U.S. Trade Representative, 2025 National Trade Estimate  Report on Foreign Trade Barriers , March 1, 2025; State
Department, 2025 Investment Climate Statements , September 26, 2025.
38 World Bank, Poverty & Inequality Assessment 2023  (most recent available).
39 African Business , “Debt or development: What is Uhuru Kenyatta’s real legacy?” August 22, 2022.
40 See, e.g.,  New York Times , “The troubles of Kenya’s China -funded train,” August 9, 2022.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   9 budget; 90% of it was funded with loans from China ’s Export -Import Bank.41 The port is part of a
large transport corridor project with South Sudan and Ethiopia that envisions a rail and road
network, airports, resort cities, an oil pipeline, and industrial areas. A 2019 court ruling blocked
plans for Kenya’s first coal -fired power plant, in Lamu, over environmental impact concerns .
The I nternational Monetary Fund (I MF) has warned Kenya to contain its debt, which rose from
42% of GDP when Kenyatta took office to  68% when Ruto ’s term began .42 Ruto pledged to cut
spending, promised greater transparency on  Chinese  loans, and signed up for a new IMF package
to reduce debt risks.43 The IMF offered additional funding, bringing its commitment to over $4.4
billion. Ruto’s government asked China for a nother $1 billion to finish stalled road projects and a
slower repayment schedule. The IMF lauded Ruto’s initial economic reforms, but the protests
underscored domestic opposition to his tax proposals, and his government has struggled with how
to balance p ublic resistance to new taxes against  the risk of debt default and  IMF pressure to
increase tax revenue.44 Ruto has been vocal  in calling for international finance system reforms,
asserting that African nations pay more , on average , to borrow than wealthie r countries, and debt
burdens leave many struggling to meet development goals and respond to  climate change.45
In early  2025, the IMF and Kenya prematurely terminated a four -year $3.6 billion deal; they are
negotiating a new support program. In the meanti me, Kenya secured a $1.5 billion loan from the
United Arab Emirates (UAE) to help finance its budget and a major trade and investment deal,
and in late 2025 Kenya converted three  Chinese  railway loans from U.S. dollars to Chinese yuan
to lower interest pay ments. In December 2025, President Ruto announced that the U.S.
International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) had agreed to a $1 billion debt -for-food
security swap that would allow Kenya to replace costly existing debt with lower -cost financing on
the condition that savings go to programs to boost food security.46
Climate Change and “Green Growth”
As the Kenyan government has emphasized, Kenya faces a range of climate -related threats and
risks, including prolonged droughts, rising temperatures, sev ere flooding, and coastal sea levels
rising faster than the global average.47 Kenya ’s climate is highly variable , given its diverse
geography,  and it experiences significant rainfall variability, with parts of the country  sometimes
experiencing higher -than-average rainfall while other areas face prolonged dry spells . Kenya has
struggled with recurrent drought since 2020, and while conditions improved in 2024, the situation
has since deteriorated. Kenya has also experienced periods of intense rainfall and se vere flooding ,
which has  contributed to displacement, property and agricultural damage, and loss of life.
41 Los Angeles Times , “‘China has conquered Kenya’” August 7, 2017.
42 Total public debt is estimated at $80 billion, of which $35 billion is owed to foreign lenders. Per the IMF’s 2023
Debt Sustainability Analysis, multilateral creditors account for 47% of Kenya’s external debt and bilateral creditors
28%. Almost 65% of Kenya’s bilateral debt is to non -Paris Club members , mainly loans from China.
43 Reuters, “Kenya publishes loan documents for Chinese -built railway,” November 7, 2022.
44 Deutsche Welle , “Kenya: Bumpy first year in office for William Ruto,” September 12, 2023 ; New York Times ,
“Behind the deadly unrest in Ke nya, a staggering and painful national debt,” June 26, 2024.
45 William Ruto, “If you want our countries to address climate change, first pause our debts,” New York Times , October
8, 2023.
46 Reuters, “Kenya, US agency to proceed with $1 billion debt -for-food swap,” December 4, 2025.
47 World Meteorological Organization, “Kenya State of the Climate Report highlights growing climate risks,” 2024.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   10 The country has increasingly positioned itself as a regional leader in addressing climate change.48
Kenya’ s economy is highly dependent on its natural resources, and its tourism sector centers on
its fragile ecosystems . The country  generates most of its electricity from geothermal and
hydroelectric sources. Drought affect s its hydropower generation, which acco unts for almost 30%
of its electricity generation and a quarter of installed capacity ; the country  is working to further
develop geothermal power, its largest energy source, to reduce its vulnerability.49 Kenya  is also
developing its wind power capacity an d hosts  Africa’s largest wind farm. Ruto has pledged to
phase out the use of fossil fuels for electricity by 2030 and urged other African leaders to embrace
renewables.50 He has also, however,  express ed support for mining Kenya’s coal deposits.51
Presiden t Ruto has led Africa’s negotiating group at the UN Climate Conference of the Parties
(COP) talks, highlighting climate impacts that he calls a “living nightmare for millions of
Kenyans, and hundreds of millions of Africans.”52 Kenya hosted a continental s ummit on climate
action in 2023, during which  17 African leaders signed the Nairobi Declaration on Climate
Change, Africa’s first joint position on the issue. Ruto is pushing a new Africa Green
Industrialization Initiative, pursuing  investment in renewable  power projects, and he wants to
attract investment from companies seeking to build factories powered by renewable energy to
reduce their carbon footprint.53 Kenya is also developing carbon capture facilities.54 The country
estimates that it needs $40 bill ion in investment over the next decade to meet its climate goals,
per its climate action plan under the Paris Agreement; funding gaps, among other challenges, may
constrain implementation.55 Some reports suggest cuts in U.S. assistance for renewable energy
programs could slow Kenya’s effort to fully transition to clean energy sources.56
Humanitarian Issues
Drought, Floods and Food Insecurity.  Recurrent drought and high food prices have driven
food insecurity in Kenya. Pastoral communities were hit hard by a prolonged 2020 -2022 drought
in which almost 3 million livestock reportedly died, destroying livelihoods. El Niño -driven rains
in 2024 faci litated some drought recovery, but also brought devastating flooding that killed
several hundred people and displaced 280,000. The rainy seasons have since been below -average,
and extremely poor rainfall during the late 2025 short rains season has intensif ied dry conditions
48 See Robina Abuya, Kenya’s Green Leadership – Shaping Africa’s Climate Future , Center for Strategic and
Internatio nal Studies, February 2025; and President of the Republic of Kenya, “Kenya to be Africa’s Voice on Climate
Change at the UN Security Council, President Kenyatta Says,” November 1, 2022 .
49 International Energy Agency data.
50 Bloomberg , “Kenya’s Ruto breaks ranks, says Africa must leapfrog fossil fuel,” October 4, 2022; William Ruto,
“Walking Our Talk on Climate Action,” Project Syndicate, May 2023.
51 Business Daily , “Treasury targets coal excise duty as President Ruto backs local mining plans,” Januar y 1, 2024 .
52 For Ruto’s speech, see https://nation.africa/ kenya/ news/ full-speech -read-ruto-s-stinging -message -at-cop27 -4012092 .
53 President of the Republic of Kenya , “Green growth is the answer to climate change,” December 2, 2023; Bloomberg ,
“Africa’s self -appointed climate champion makes the hard sell,” December 8, 2023; and  Washington Post , “Kenyan
president aims to attract green investment during U.S. visit,” May 17, 2024.
54 “Diana Kruzman, “Welcome to Kenya’s Great Carbon Valley: a bold new gamble to fight climate change,” MIT
Technology Review , December 22, 2025.
55 For more, see Abuya, Kenya’s Green Leadership .
56 Shadrack Omuka,  “USAID freeze puts Kenya’s renewable energy ambitions at risk,” The Progressive, June 4, 2025.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   11 in early 2026, fueling food insecurity in the country’s arid and semi -arid areas.57 By some
estimates, as many as 3 million people in Kenya may face acute food insecurity this year.58
Refugee Issues.  Kenya hosts over 835,000 refugees and asylum seekers, 87% of whom live in
camps.59 A majority are from Somalia and South Sudan (460,000 and  203,000, respectively, as of
early 2026), where conflict, insecurity, and humanitarian need have driven rising refugee flows
into Kenya. Funding shortfalls have led aid agencies to reduce assistance to refugees in Kenya at
the same time that humanitarian operations in Somalia and South Sudan are also struggling with
serious funding gaps.60 Abrupt ration  cuts in early 2025, prompted by the Trump Administration’s
aid freeze (see “ U.S. Relations and Assistance ”) and other donor cuts, spurred violent clashes in
one of Kenya’s refugee camps; the aid cuts have increased food insecurity in the camps.61
The Kenyan government’s stance toward refugees has shifted significantly over the past decade.
In 2015, after a major Al Shabaab attack  in Kenya, then -Deputy President Ruto demanded that
the UN refugee agency (UNHCR) relocate refugees from Dadaab, Kenya’s  largest refugee camp
complex , where Kenyan authorities alle ged Al Shabaab had ties.62 The Obama Administration
intervened: then -Secretary of State John Kerry traveled to the country, praised its role as a refugee
host, and pledged additional U.S. aid to help Kenya support refugees.63 In 2016, the government
declared that Kenya  would no longer host refugees, again citing security concerns. Officials later
clarified that the aim was to close Dadaab, which at the time h ad over 340,000 refugees, most
from Somalia. Kenya’s High Court blocke d Dadaab’s closure, ruling it discriminatory and
unconstitutional. Authorities threatened to close Dadaab  again  in 2019 and told UNHCR in 2021
that camp residents would be expelled if UNHCR did not devise a plan to close both the Dadaab
and Kakuma complexe s by 2022  (Kakuma is near the border with South Sudan and has
historically hosted refugees from there) . Humanitarian activists, arguing returns to countries in
conflict  were not sustainable, urged the government to offer refugees durable solutions in Kenya .
The government  adopted a progressive law  in 2021  that provides new opportunities, rights, and
protections for refugees within Kenya. Refugee advocates say it offers a promising model for
refugee integration at a time when many countries are tightening r estrictions.64 The new policy ,
known as the Shirika Plan, aims to move from a camp -centric model toward one of local
integration . It enjoys public support, but bureaucratic impediments pose challenges to its
implementation.65 Under the plan, the camps arou nd Dadaab , with over 400,000 refugees,  and
Kakuma , with over 300,000 refugees,  are being  transformed into integrated municipalities.
57 FEWS NET, “Crisis (IPC Phase 3) outcomes expanding as anomalous dry conditions intensify,” January 2026.
58 Action Against Hunger, “Escalating Malnutrition a nd Acute Food Shortage in Kenya’s ASAL Counties Amid
Worsening Drought,” February 18, 2026.
59 UNHCR, “Refugee and Asylum -seekers in Kenya,” Operational Data Portal, data as of January 31, 2026.
60 World Food Program, “WFP warns of catastrophic shortfalls in  Somalia with millions at risk of deepening hunger
crisis,” February 20, 2026 and “Conflict and funding cuts fuel soaring hunger in South Sudan,” November 18, 2025.
61 WFP, WFP Kenya Country Brief, March 2025 , March 31, 2025; The Guardian , “Refugees in Keny a’s Kakuma camp
clash with police after food supplies cut,” March 5, 2025; The New Humanitarian , “Cut to the bone, The cost of ration
cuts and delivery delays in Kenya’s refugee camps,” August 26, 2025 .
62 CNN , “Kenyan official to U.N.: Relocate world’s largest refugee camp, or we’ll do it,” April 11, 2015.
63 State Department, Remarks by Secretary Kerry, Press Availability in Nairobi, Kenya, May 4, 2015.
64 Refugees International, Removing Red Tape to Get Kenya’s Refugee Act Right , March 13, 2025.
65 The New Humanitarian , “Kenya embraces refugee integration – and citizens are on board,” April 21, 2025.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   12 Security Issues
Terrorist threats  and conflict in neighboring countries have led Kenya to take an increasingly
active role in regional security, although banditry, cattle rustling, poaching, and intercommunal
disputes place competing domestic demands on Kenya’s security resources. Kenya has suffered
multiple international terrorist attacks, and the concentration of potential t argets in Nairobi is a
serious concern for Kenyan and foreign security officials. Jihadist recruitment in Kenya is also a
problem: Kenyans reportedly comprise the largest share of Al Shabaab’s foreign fighters, and in
2024, a Kenyan national was convicted in U.S. court of conspiring to conduct a 9/11 -style
terrorist attack in the United States on Al Shabaab’s behalf.66 Studies suggest that local grievances
in Kenya, including the perceived marginalization and mistreatment of Muslims, and security
force abuses have contributed to radicalization.67 Al Shabaab attacks in Kenya have been sporadic
in the past five years, pri marily consisting of ambushes and improvised explosive devices (IEDs)
targeting security forces, and largely concentrated in the northeast, near the Somali border.
Beyond its domestic anti -terrorism efforts and military operations near the Somali border, Kenya
has conducted military operations in Somalia since 2011. The number of Kenyan troops in the AU
Support and Stabilization Mission in Somalia (AUSSOM), declined in 2025 with the mission’s
transition to a new mandate. Kenya is expected to contribute 1,4 10 of AUSSOM’s 11,900
personnel. AUSSOM faces funding gaps as international donors continue to differ on how to
finance it; the United States opposes the AU proposal to use UN assessed contributions in line
with UN Security Council Resolution 2719 (2023) t o help finance the mission.68
Alongside terrorist threats, Kenya has struggled with  pastoralist militia activity , including cattle -
rustling and banditry,  in the northwest.69 The government deployed the military  in 2023  to curb
attacks and small arms proli feration . The deployment  lower ed the scale of violence, but persistent
insecurity fueled public frustration with the government’s decision to deploy police to Haiti.70
Police Abuses and Calls for Reform
Police abuses and extrajudicial killings (EJKs) in Ke nya have repeatedly drawn an international spotlight, including in
the context of anti -terrorism efforts.71 The State Department’s most recent human rights report listed security
force abuses, including torture, unlawful killings, and enforced disappearances among Kenya’s most serious human
rights problems, noting “numerous reports the government or its agents committed arbitrary or unlawful killings
... particularly during the youth -led, nationwide ‘Gen Z’ demonstrations” in 2024. The report described impunity
as a problem “at all levels of government” and a serious problem across security agencies. Accountabil ity
mechanisms such as the Independent Police Oversight Authority have been criticized for failing to prosecute
66 Justice Department, “Cholo Abdi Abdullah sentenced to life in prison for conspiring to commit 9/11 -style terrorist
attack on behalf of al -Shabaab, ” December 22, 2025.
67 Tricia Bacon, “Inside the Minds of Somalia’s ascendant insurgents: An Identity, Mind, Emotions and Perceptions
Analysis of Al -Shabaab,” Program on Extremism at George Washington University, March 2022; UN Development
Program (UNDP), Journey to Extremism in Africa : Drivers, Incentives and Tipping Point for Recruitment , 2017.
68 Partha Moman, “With AUSSOM’s funding challenges here to stay, what are the options for the Mission’s future in
Somalia?” International Peace Institute, January 1 6, 2026; U.S. Mission to the United Nations, Explanation of Vote –
UN Security Council Resolution on AUSSOM, December 27, 2024.
69 For more on pastoralist and ethnic militia activity, see, e.g., ACLED, “Increasing Security Challenges in Kenya,”
March 2, 20 23 and “Kenya: Government operation brings calm to North Rift region,” August 4, 2023.
70 The New Humanitarian , “Kenya’s security paradox: Police sent to Haiti as banditry plagues North Rift,” September
4, 2024; Nation , “Renewed bandit attacks in Kerio Vall ey undermine government peace efforts,” January 28, 2025.
71 See, e.g., New York Times , “Haiti, desperate for peace, turns to police notorious for violence,” October 4, 2023;
CNN , “Dozens ‘disappeared’ by security forces, rights group says,” July 19, 2016; and Washington Post , “Kenya’s
heavy -handed war on terror,” May 7, 2015 .
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   13 misconduct. A 2021 Kenyan parliamentary report described EJKs and enforced disappearances as a grave concern,
noting over 1,000 cases since 2013 . Missing Voices, a coalition that tracks police killings and disappearances,
documented over 800 cases from 2019 -2023 and 159 cases in 2024 (104 EJKs and 55 enforced disappearances).72
Police abuses around elections have been a recurrent problem. Police were implicated in over 400 deaths after the
2007 elections and over 100 deaths after the 2017 polls.73 Ruto pledged to end police abuse and enhance police
oversight in his campaign; after he took office, Kenyan prosecutors charged 12 police officers with crimes against
humanity over the 2017 post -election violence.74 In 2023 and 2024, however, the police response to protests
reportedly resulted in dozens of deaths, and senior government officials dismissed allegations of excessive force.75
A taskforce dire cted by Ruto to study police problems recommended far -reaching changes to the police and
prisons services, citing underfunding, “endemic” corruption, leadership gaps, and poor human capital management
as key challenges.76 The taskforce noted that police ro utinely rank in polls as Kenya’s most corrupt institution, and
assessed that the failure to address the problem was fueling a culture of impunity in the force; they also
recommended raising police salaries. The Biden Administration pledged $7 million in ne w aid during Ruto’s 2024
state visit to help modernize and professionalize Kenya’s National Police Service and over $2 million to support
prison service reforms. The United States has also supported the Kenyan police for their deployment to Haiti .
Selected Foreign Relations Issues
East Africa.  Kenya has played a peacemaking role in its troubled region  on multiple occasions ,
hosting the talks that led to Sudan’s 2005 Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) and facilitating
negotiations on conflicts in Ethiopia, DRC, and South Sudan. With U.S. support and President
Ruto’s approval, former President Kenyatta played a leading role in the AU -mediated ceasefire
deal between Ethiopia’s government and Tigray authorities in 2022 , and a Kenyan general
continues to lead the AU ceasefire monitoring team there.  On several occasions, U.S. diplomats
have worked closely with Kenya on mediation efforts, including during the CPA and Tigray talks.
Some political actors and other observers have questioned Kenya’s neutrality in some of the
region’s conflicts.77 Former Deputy President Gachagua , for example,  has accused Ruto of
profit ing from the conf licts in Sudan and DRC and help ing warring factions smuggle gold from
those countries through Kenya.78 According to Gachagua, Ruto has had business ties with RSF
leader Hemedti since 2023, and also has links with the M23 rebel group in DRC. Reports from
non-governmental organizations have named Kenya as a hub for illicit gold flows from conflict -
affected countries in the  region to the UAE.79
Ethiopia. Sometimes seen as competitors, Kenya and Ethiopia have generally maintained cordial
relations, but instabil ity in Ethiopia has been a concern for Kenya in recent years.80 The two
countries sometimes collaborate on shared security concerns, both in Somalia and along their
72 Missing Voices, 2023 Annual Report , April 2024 and 2024 Annual Report , May 2025.
73 Human Rights Watch, “Kill Those Criminals”: Security Force Violations in Kenya’s 2017 Elections , October 2017.
74 AFP, “Kenyan police charged with crimes against humanity over 2017 crackdown,” October 28, 2022.
75 Kenya Human Rights Commission, “Kenya marching slowly into a police state,” July 21, 2023 ; HRW, “Unchecked
Injustice”: Kenya’s Su ppression of the 2023 Anti -Government Protests , November 5, 2024 .
76 Report of the National Taskforce on Police Reforms , November 2023.
77 Al Jazeera , Peacemaker or peacebreaker? Why Kenya’s good neighbour reputation is marred,” March 6, 2025.
78 The Africa Report , “Kenya: Ex -allies lambast Ruto, accuse him of war profiteering,” April 11, 2025;  The Standard
(Nairobi), “Gachagua drops diplomatic bombshell on Ruto,” April 8, 2025.
79 Bloomberg , “Kenya serves as a hub for smuggled gold from region,” June 3, 2025; Global Initiative Against
Transnational Organized Crime, Tarnished hope: Crime and corruption in South Sudan’s gold sector , May 2023.
80 Mvemba Dizolele et al., Vying for Regional Leadership in the Horn of Africa: Kenya and Ethiopia, Competitors or
Partners?  February 24, 2025; President William Ruto, The Annual Report to Parliament on the State of National
Security , November 2025.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   14 shared border. They conducted joint operations against one of Ethiopia’s rebel groups, the Oromo
Liberation Army (OLA) in early 2025, and subsequently signed a new defense pact, upgrading an
arrangement last negotiated in 1963. Ruto has offered to mediate between Ethiopia and Egypt in
their dispute over the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD) , although Egypt may see Ruto,
who has described the dam as a “monumental achievement” for Ethiopia, as partial.81 Kenya has
increased its electricity imports from Ethiopia to meet growing energy demands, and plans to buy
power produced from the GERD.82 In 2023, the two countries opened the Ethiopia -Kenya
Electricity Highway, a $1.2 billion World Bank project through which they now share power.83
Somalia. Kenya -Somalia relations are complex. Ethnic Somalis comprise an estimated 6% of
Kenya’s population:  while some arrived in recent decades as refugees, Kenya’s colonial
boundaries incorporated areas inhabited by ethnic Somalis, who are the predominant group in
northeast Kenya. Historically marginalized, Somali Kenyans have nevertheless sometimes played
prominent roles in Kenya’s government, and currently hold several of the top security posts.84
In the early 2000s, Kenya hosted peace talks that led to the formation of Somalia’s transitional
federal government. It operated from Nairobi for several years un til regional security operations
enabled its move to Somalia. After Al Shabaab took control of much of south -central Somalia in
the late 2000s, Kenya sought to create a buffer zone between its border and Al Shabaab territory.
In tandem with its military in cursion into southern Somalia, Kenya backed local militia and was
pivotal in the establishment of Jubaland, which became one of Somalia’s most autonomous
federal states.85 Jubaland has sometimes been a point of friction between the governments of
Kenya and Somalia.86 Kenya’s ties with the breakaway Republic of Somaliland is another area of
tension: Kenya maintains a liaison office there, and in 2025 allowed Somaliland to op en its own
liaison office in Nairobi.87 Kenya and Somalia also have an unresolved maritime boundary
dispute.88 Ruto announced in early 2026 that Kenya would reopen its land border with Somalia,
which has been officially closed since 2011.89
DRC.  Kenya dep loyed troops to eastern DRC in 2022 to lead an East African force to stabilize
areas affected by a Rwandan -backed rebellion; the force withdrew in late  2023 after DRC
authorities complained that East African troops were unwilling to aggressively confront t he
rebels. Kenya has facilitated peace talks on the eastern DRC crisis, despite apparent suspicion by
some Congolese about Kenya’s interests in the country. DRC’s president accused Ruto in 2024 of
taking Rwanda’s side in the conflict.90 Former President Ke nyatta has nevertheless remained
involved in regional mediation efforts as an AU envoy. The African -led peace process is part of a
81 CapitalFM, “Ruto says Kenya backs fair Nile water use, urges Ethiopia, Egypt, Sudan to pursue good -faith talks,”
Septe mber 9, 2025.
82 The Africa Report , “Kenya’s power crisis reality: Why Ethiopia still holds the switch,” February 16, 2026.
83 CNN , “The $1 billion electricity highway that allows Ethiopia and Kenya to share their power,” December 14, 2024.
84 Tabea Scharrer, “‘Ambiguous citizens’: Kenyan Somalis and the question of belonging,” Journal of Eastern African
Studies , June 16, 2018; Keren Weitzberg,  We Do Not Have Borders: Greater Somalia and the Predicaments of
Belonging in Kenya , Ohio University P ress: 2017; HRW, “Victory for Kenyans denied citizenship,” February 26, 2025.
85 For more, see International Crisis Group, The Kenyan Military Intervention in Somalia , February 15, 2012 and
“Jubaland in jeopardy: The uneasy path to state -building in Somalia ,” May 21, 2013.
86 New York Times , Somalia severs diplomatic ties with Kenya,” December 15, 2020; ICG, “Ending the dangerous
standoff in Southern Somalia,” July 14, 2020; DefenseWeb, “The Jubaland Forces incursion: Safeguarding Kenya’s
territorial integrit y amid regional volatility,” October 7, 2025.
87 The Africa Report , “Somaliland’s Nairobi gambit: Embassy or provocation?” May 30, 2025.
88 New York Times , “Why a sea dispute has Somalia and Kenya on edge,” October 12, 2021.
89 For more, see Deutsche Welle , “Security fears linger as Kenya set to open Somalia border,” February 24, 2026.
90 Africanews , “Conflict in eastern DRC: Tshisekedi criticizes Ruto on Nairobi process,” August 13, 2024.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   15 broader set of international diplomatic efforts focused on the security crisis in eastern DRC,
which include a major U.S. -led mediation effort between DRC and Rwanda.91
Sudan.  President Ruto has also offered to facilitate talks between Sudan’s warring parties, but
Sudan’s military government has accused him of bias toward the insurgent Rapid Support Forces
(RSF). Kenya’s relati ons with Sudan’s government deteriorated in 2024 after Ruto hosted a visit
by RSF leader Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, aka “Hemedti,” and hit a new low  in early 2025 when
Kenya allowed the RSF to announce a parallel government in a Nairobi conference facility owned
by the Kenyan government. Sudanese authorities called it “ tantamount to an act of hostility .”92
Experts subsequently identified Kenyan ammunition among weapons reportedly captured from
the RSF.93 Ruto’s former deputy has accused him of allowing the RS F to launder money from
gold through Nairobi.94 Kenyan officials assert that they are neutral on the conflict and have
called for sanctions on the warring parties’ leaders for obstructing humanitarian aid.95 The U.S.
Treasury Department reported in early 2 026 that one of Hemedti’s brothers, whom Treasury
sanctioned in 2024 for his role in procuring weapons for the group, holds a Kenyan passport.96
Haiti.97 In July 2023, Kenya responded to an appeal from the government of Haiti for help with
rising gang viol ence, offering to lead a multinational force  to assist Haitian police in restor ing
order.98 The UN Security Council authorized the Multinational Security Support mission (MSS)
in October 2023, with Kenyan police expected to comprise roughly half the force. Kenya’s
deployment faced legal challenges and delays; the first contingent arrived in Haiti in mid -2024.99
Hamstrung by funding, personnel, and equipment shortfalls, the MSS struggled to carry out its
mission, reaching barely 1,000 of the authorized  2,500 personnel (a majority Kenyan), and the
security situation in Haiti continued to worsen.100 Several Kenyan police officers were killed.
In September 2025, the UN Security Council authorized the transition of the MSS into a Gang
Suppression Force (GSF ), which has  a more robust mandate and is slated to have up to 5,500
military and police officers.101 Like the MSS, the GSF is not a UN mission and is reliant on
voluntary contributions, but the GSF is now supported logistically by a UN Support Office in
Haiti (UNSOH), which is funded through assessed peacekeeping contributions. The GSF is led by
a Standing Group of Partners, which includes the United States, Canada, Kenya, and other nations
that contributed forces to the MSS.
91 See also CRS Insight IN12619, Peace Process in Eastern Democratic Republic of Congo: Issues for Congress .
92 New York Times , “Amid regional diplomatic furor, Sudan’s paramilitaries forge a rival government,” February 23,
2025.
93 Bellingcat, “Kenyan weapons linked to Sudan’s civil war,” June 15, 2025.
94 Middle East Eye , “Kenya’s former vice president calls for Ruto to be sanctioned over Sudan war,” April 10, 2025.
95 Nation , “Mudavadi: Kenya wants warring Sudan leaders sanctioned,”  April 16, 2025.
96 Treasury Department, “Treasury Sanctions Sudanese Rapid Support Forces Procurement Director, October 8, 2024
and Specially Designated Nationals List Update, February 19, 2026.
97 For more on the Haiti situation, see CRS Insight IN12331, Haiti in Crisis: Developments Related to the
Multinational Security Support Mission  and CRS Report R47394, Haiti: Recent Developments and U.S. Policy .
98 Foreign Minister Alfred Mutua (@DrAlfredMutua), X Post, July 29, 2023.
99 Kenya’s parliament approved the government’s request to deploy police to Haiti  in late 2023 , but its High Court
blocked the deployment, ruling that it required a “reciprocal arrange ment” with a host government , which  Kenyan and
Haitian officials signed in early 2024 . BBC , “Kenya court blocks police deployment to Haiti,” January 26, 2024; The
Guardian , “Kenya’s offer to send police to Haiti sparks human rights concerns,” August 5, 202 3; New York Times ,
“Haiti, desperate for peace, turns to police notorious for violence,” October 4, 2023.
100 The New Humanitarian , “The new Gang Suppression Force and what it means for Haitians,” December 3, 2025.
101 The Security Council authorized the GSF in Resolution 2793 (2025), sponsored by the United States and Panama..
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   16 Israel/Gaza.  Kenya has longstan ding ties with  Israel, which Kenyan officials call a “special
partnership.”102 Ruto expressed solidarity with Israel over the October 2023 attacks by Hamas,
but has faced domestic pressure over Israel’s military operations in Gaza.103 Kenya often support s
Israeli positions at the United Nations, but has also voted in favor of full UN membership for
Palestine. Kenya supported resolutions calling for a humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza.
Iran.  In 2023,  Iranian President Ebraihim Raisi made K enya the first stop on a trip aimed at
bolstering Iran’s ties with Africa (Raisi also visited Uganda and Zimbabwe), and he signed a
range of cooperation agreements with President Ruto, describing the visit as a turning point in
Iran-Kenya relations.104 It was the first visit by an Iranian leader to Kenya in over a decade —
during which time Iranian agents were implicated in several possible terrorist plots purportedly
targeting Western or Israeli interests in Kenya.105 In response to the U.S. and Israeli milita ry
operations against Iran, the Ruto Administration has called for de -escalation and diplomacy, and
it has condemned the retal iatory strikes by Iran on the Gulf states.106
Russia/Ukraine.  Kenya was a vocal critic of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in 2022 when  it sat
on the UN Security Council.107 The Ruto administration took a more ambiguous stance in early
2023, hosting the foreign ministers of Belarus and Russia and announcing plans for a trade pact
with Russia. (Russia -Kenya trade is limited, particularly in  comparison to U.S. -Kenya trade;
imports from Russia consist primarily of iron, wheat, and fertilizers; Kenya’s main export to
Russia is tea.) Kenyan officials subsequently called Russia’s decision to exit the Black Sea Grain
Initiative “a stab in the back ” that would disproportionally harm the drought -affected Horn of
Africa.108 Ruto did not attend Russia’s 2023 Africa Summit, and in early 2024, Kenya joined the
Ukraine Defense Contact Group, a coalition of countries that supports the defense of Ukraine.
Hundreds of Kenyans, meanwhile, have reportedly been recruited or forcibly conscripted into the
Russian army to fight in Ukraine.109 Some say they were recruited with offers of gainful
employment in Russia, but then forced to fight in Ukraine, while others, including some former
members of Kenya’s security forces, were reportedly recruited to fight as mercenaries. Kenyan
authorities assess that as many as 1,000 Kenyan citizens have been recruited to fight for Russia
and have called for Russia to bar the consc ription of Kenyans.110 The government has shut down
recruitment agencies and is prosecuting several individuals on human trafficking charges.
China.  China is Kenya’s largest trading partner and largest bilateral lender. PRC loans, estimated
at over $8 billion, account for almost 17% of Kenya’s  external debt (the World Bank is its largest
external creditor).111 While Ruto has sought to strengthen U.S. ties, he has also sought to maintain
102 The East African , “Kenya, Israel agree to enhance cooperation on health and security,” July 29, 2021.
103 The Star (Nairobi),  “Kenya stands with Israel, Ruto says amidst war with Palestine,” October 8, 2023; President
William Ruto (@WilliamsRuto), X Post, February 1, 2024.
104 VOA , “Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi Kicks Off Africa Tour in Kenya,” July 12, 2023.
105 The Star , “Poli ce uncover terror plans by an Iranian national in Kenya,” November 28, 2021.
106 President William Ruto (@WilliamsSRuto), X post, March 2, 2026.
107 NPR , “Kenyan U.N. Ambassador compares Ukraine’s plight to colonial legacy in Africa,” February 22, 2022.
108 BBC  News , “Russia’s grain deal exit is a stab in the back —Kenya,” July 18, 2023.
109 AFP, “Lies, horror, trauma: Kenyans recount forced Russian recruitment,” February 9, 2026; Washington Post ,
“Kenyan job seekers were lured to Russia, then sent to die in Ukrain e,” February 2, 2026.
110 BBC News , “Over 1,000 Kenyans enlisted to fight in Russia -Ukraine war,” February 19, 2026.
111 Fergus Kell, “Kenya’s debt struggles go far deeper than Chinese loans,” Chatham House, May 31, 2023; Africa
Center for Open Governance, Kenya’s Debt Treadmill: The China Portfolio 2000 -2024 , December 2024.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   17 a “robust friendship” with China, despite his anti-China rhetoric du ring his campaign.112 When
Ruto was Kenyatta’s deputy, their coalition cultivated ties with the Communist Party of China, an
effort Ruto’s party continued  after his election .113 Ruto attended China’s 2023 Belt and Road
Forum  and its Forum on China -Africa Coo peration (FOCAC) in 2024, and China hosted him for
a state visit in April 2025 . China’s foreign ministry described the state visit, the first by an African
leader since FOCAC, as aimed at deepening the relationship and “promoting the solidarity and
coopera tion of the Global South.”114 Ruto sought funding for new infrastructure projects,
cooperation on green energy initiatives, trade deals, better loan terms, and China’s support for
reforms to multilateral institutions.115 Chinese companies reportedly signed d eals worth $823
million in new investments. In January 2026, Kenya announced a preliminary trade deal with
China that would remove tariffs on over 98% of Kenyan exports to the Chinese market. Opinion
polls suggest most Kenyans view Chinese investment in th eir country positively but see the
amount of debt Kenya owes to China as a serious problem.116
Renditions.  The abduction and rendition of several foreign dissidents from Kenya has prompted
alarm from human rights advocates , including Amnesty International,  which describes them as
part of a “growing and worrying trend in transnational repression.”117 Several prominent cases
were reported in 2024: the rendition of Ugandan opposition leader Kizza Besigye in November,
four Turkish refugees in October (seven Turk ish nationals were abducted; three were released),
and 36 Ugandan opposition supporters in July.118 A Rwandan human rights defender, Yusuf
Ahmed Gasana,  and a South Sudanese dissident, Morris Mabior Awikjok Bak, were abducted in
Kenya and forcibly returned to their countries in 2023. Bak’s rendition followed several
renditions to South Sudan during Kenyatta’s term; Bak, like the other South Sudanese, was
registered as a refugee in Kenya. In January 2025, Tanzanian activist Maria Sarungi Tsehai, a
prominent c ritic of her country’s government, was abducted by unknown assailants in Nairobi but
released several hours later. What role, if any, Kenyan security agents played in these incidents is
debated, but the cases have tarnished Kenya’s reputation as a relative  safe haven in the region.119
Wildlife and Environmental Conservation
Heavily reliant on tourism for foreign exchange earnings, Kenya has implemented measures to
conserve its wildlife resources and is recognized as a leader in countering wildlife trafficki ng in
Africa. It has a stringent regulatory and legislative environment around poaching and trafficking,
and has enjoyed a dramatic drop in elephant and rhino poaching in the past decade.120 Many anti -
trafficking initiatives are implemented through the Keny a Wildlife Service (KWS), which
112 During his campaign, Ruto pledged to deport Chinese nationals doing jobs that could be done by Kenyans. On his
post-election shift, see, e.g., VOA , “After anti -China campaign, Kenya’s Rut o does about -face,” September 29, 2022.
113 CapitalFM , “Kenya: UDA seeks support of Communist Party of China to Strengthen Structures,” August 17, 2023.
114 PRC Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Press Conference, April 17, 2025.
115 Citizen , “Inside President Ruto’s China state visit,” April 20, 2025.  Star (Nairobi), “President Ruto takes the mic in
Beijing, calls for global shake -up,” April 23, 2025.
116 Pew Research  Center, “Views of China in Middle -Income Countries,” July 15, 2025.
117 Amnesty International (AI), “Uganda: Opposition politician’s abduction in Kenya continues a “growing and
worrying trend in transitional repression ,” November 20, 2024.
118 OHCHR, Comment by UN Human Rights Chief Volker Türk on abduction of Ugandan opposition leader Kizza
Besigye ,” November 21, 2024; BBC , “UN ‘deeply concerned’ Kenya returned Turkish refugees,” October 21, 2024.
119 The Africa Report , “Is Kenya the new haven for internationa l abductions?” January 17, 2025; BBC  News , “‘We live
in fear – forced expulsions taint Kenya’s safe haven image,” November 6, 2024; VOA , “Top Kenyan official claims
Kenya is ‘safe haven’ as cases of state -sanctioned abductions surge,” November 28, 2024.
120 Financial Times , “How Kenya turned the tide against ivory poachers,” April 27, 2021.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   18 enforces wildlife laws and regulations and manages the national parks and reserves. Despite its
efforts to curb the illicit wildlife trade, Kenya remains a transit country. Corruption and
weaknesses in enforcement and prosec ution of trafficking laws are an ongoing concern.
The U.S. government has long partnered with Kenya’s government and civil society to address
these issues and support other conservation efforts. The United States has provided training and
equipment to the KWS and supports programs to protect the country’s parks and animals.
Roughly 65% of Kenya’s famous wildlife live outside its KWS -protected parks, and conservation
groups have worked with communities to establish over 200 community conservancies to protect
wildlife and promote sustainable land use. The United States has supported these conservancies,
which protect over 7 million hectares of land. Tourism, much of it wildlife -related, is an
important source of revenue ($ 3.5 billion in 202 4) and jobs.121 Kenya lost an estimated $1 billion
in tourism -related revenue during the COVID -19 pandemic.
Deforestation is a long -standing concern  for Kenya . Kenya’s Wangari Maathai, the first African
woman to win the Nobel Prize, was recognized for her tree -planting campaign and broader
contributions to sustainable development, democracy, and peace. President Ruto has proposed to
plant 15 billion trees by 2023 to combat climate change , but in 2023, he directed an end to a six -
year-old logging ban, ostensibly to create  jobs. A court suspended the decision, leaving the ban in
place. Environmentalists warn that lifting the logging ban would risk reversing the gains the
country  has made to improve its tree cover.122 Among other environmental initiatives, Kenya has
sought to stem plastic pollution, including by banning plastic bags and single -use plastics in
2017. With stiff penalties, the law was initially successful, but the smuggling of bags from
neighboring countri es presents enforcement challenges.123
U.S. Relations and Assistance
The United States and Kenya have historically close ties. The country is a popular destination in
Africa for American tourists: over 300,000 Americans visited Kenya in 2024.124 U.S. Embassy
Nairobi is designated a high -threat, high -risk post, given terrorism concerns, and hundreds of U.S.
servicemembers, civilians, and contractors are in  Kenya to support counterterrorism (CT) efforts
in the region. Some are deployed to Camp Simba, a U.S. forward operating location adjacent to a
Kenyan naval base  on the coast near the Somali border.
Governance, human rights, and corruption concerns in Kenya sometimes complicate the bilateral
relationship, and abuses by Kenyan security forces have posed challe nges at times for security
cooperation. Successive U.S. Administrations have pushed for greater accountability for political
violence and unresolved corruption cases. In 2024, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), of
which the United States is a member, added Kenya to its “grey list” of countries subject to
increased monitoring for money laundering and terrorism financing.
Bilateral relations have fluctuated in the past two decades. The ICC cases were a significant point
of friction, and President Kenyat ta looked to other foreign partners, notably China, for diplomatic
and economic support. In the tense period after the 2017 polls, however, U.S. diplomats helped to
facilitate Kenyatta and Odinga’s rapprochement, a sign of  continued U.S. influence. The first
Trump Administration took steps to improve ties, and announced a Strategic Partnership  when
121 Citizen , “Kenya’s tourism sector hit record Ksh.452 billion earnings in 2024,” September 23, 2025.
122 Lisa Fuchs, “Kenya’s logging ban has been lifted —it’s a political de cision and a likely setback for conservation,”
The Conversation, July 22, 2023.
123 NPR , “The toughest plastic bag ban is failing: A tale of smugglers, dumps and dying goats,” August 9, 2023.
124 Kenya Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife, Annual Tourism Sector Pe rformance Report 2024 .
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   19 Kenyatta visited the White House in 2018. Nearly $900 million in commercial deals were
announced during the visit, and direct flights, once blocked over U.S. sec urity concerns, started
later that year. First Lady Melania Trump visited Kenya on her first solo international trip. The
Trump Administration launched a Bilateral Strategic Dialogue with Kenya in 2019 and free trade
agreement (FTA) negotiations in 2020.
Relations continued to improve under the Biden Administration. Kenya was the opening stop on
Antony Blinken’s first trip to Sub-Saharan Africa as Secretary of State, during which  he attended
the Bilateral Strategic Dialogue. He highlighted  the strategic pa rtnership and Kenya’s regional
peacemaking role during the 2022 U.S. -Africa Leaders Summit, when the two countries signed a
memorandum of understanding on civil nuclear cooperation. First Lady Jill Biden visited Kenya
in early 2023, and Defense Secretary L loyd Austin went to Kenya on his first Sub-Saharan Africa
tour, during which a five -year Framework for Defense Cooperation was finalized. The  heads of
the Central Intelligence Agency and Federal Bureau of Investigation both visited in 2024.
The Biden Admin istration expressed support for a range of Kenyan initiatives, including on
climate action and renewable energy. During Ruto’s 2024 state visit, the two governments made
commitments on democracy, human rights, public health, security, and countering corrup tion,
among other issues.125 They announced new initiatives on education, climate action, clean energy,
carbon management, and sustainable development, and unveiled a partnership on semiconductor
manufacturing in Kenya to strengthen the global supply chain.  They launched the Nairobi -
Washington Vision, which called on the international community to help developing countries
manage debt while investing in economic growth. The Biden Administration pledged new funds
for police professionalization, prison reforms , health, education, agriculture, and civil society.
Two resolutions introduced during the visit, S.Res. 704  and H.Res. 1254 , recogniz ed Kenya’s
strategic importance to the United States and celebrat ed the 60th anniversary of bilateral ties.
President Biden’s ambassador to Kenya, prominent Ame rican business  executive  Meg Whitman,
focused on pitching Kenya to U.S. businesses and investors, and trade and investment were top
priorities for Kenya during Ruto’s state visit.126 Microsoft and Coca Cola, among other U.S.
businesses, announced major priv ate sector deals around the visit. The U.S. International
Development Finance Corporation (DFC), which has facilitated investments in renewable energy,
e-mobility, digital connectivity, and infrastructure in Kenya, revealed new commitments during
the visit  that brought the DFC’s Kenya portfolio to over $1 billion. The Biden Administration,
instead of continuing FTA negotiations, pursued a Strategic Trade and Investment Partnership
(STIP) with Kenya, which the U.S. Trade Representative described as an “ambit ious roadmap for
enhanced cooperation.” For more, see CRS In Focus IF11526, U.S.-Kenya Trade Negotiations .
The current Trump Administration  has characterized Kenya as an important U.S. ally in Africa.127
Secretary Rubio has publicly engaged more often with President Ruto than other African leaders,
discuss ing the conflicts in DRC, Sudan, Somalia , and  South Sudan ; praising  Kenya’ s “pivotal”
role in the turbulent region ; and  expressing appreciation for the Haiti deployment .128 President
Ruto has publicly challenged the Trump Administration on some issues, including climate change
125 White House, Fact Sheet: Kenya State Visit to the United States , May 23, 2024.
126 POLITICO , “Meg Whitman’s trying to be a different kind of US ambassador. Washington is noticing,” May 22,
2024.
127 See, e.g., State Department, “United States and Kenya sign five -year, $2.5 billion Health Cooperation Framework,”
December 4, 2025 and “Advancing Trump Administration priorities in Sub -Saharan Africa,” September 25, 2025.
128 See, e.g., State Department, Se cretary Rubio’s Meeting with Kenyan President Ruto,” September 24, 2025 and
“State Department, Secretary of State Marco Rubio with Kenyan President Ruto at the Signing of a Health Framework
of Cooperation,” December 4, 2025, and State Department readouts o f Secretary Rubio’s calls with President Ruto.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   20 and the defunding of some UN agencies.129 The post of U.S. ambassador to Kenya has been
vacant since the end of President Biden’s term.
The Trump Administration’s aid cuts (discussed below) and decision to dissolve the U.S. Agency
for International Development (USAID) have reduced the U.S. footpr int in Kenya. The U.S.
embassy now hosts one of four foreign aid “hubs” on the continent, however, and the DFC has
based a regional representative in the country. The DFC has yet to announce new projects in
Kenya, but President Ruto reported in late 2025 t hat, in addition to the debt -for-food security
swap, the DFC was willing to collaborate with Kenya on food security, infrastructure, energy, and
information and communications technology .130 Kenya was the first country to sign one of the
Administration’s ne w “Health Cooperation Frameworks,” under which the State Department has
committed to continue global health funding for the next five years, albeit with planned assistance
levels declining during that period.
U.S. Trade.  U.S. goods trade with Kenya rose f rom $1.5 billion in 2024 to over $1.8 billion in
2025, with over $990 million in U.S. exports to Kenya last year and almost $860 million in
imports.131 The U.S. goods trade surplus for 2025 was almost $132 million, up from $45 million
in 2024. Kenya has bee n a leading exporter under the African Growth and Opportunity Act
(AGOA, Title I of  P.L. 106 -200, as amended) trade preference program and the largest textile
exporter to the United States under AGOA. The country has faced a 10% tariff on exports to the
United States per the Trump Administration’s April 2025 trade action; the U.S. Trade
Representative cited Kenya’s 50% tariff on imports of U.S. corn and “burdensome regulatory
requirements” on corn imports as among the “unfair trade practices” facing U.S. exporters.132
Kenya has sought relief from the tariff and lobbied for the extension of AGOA, which Congress
reauthorized in January 2026 through the end of the year.133 The February 20, 2026 U.S. Supreme
Court ruling on tariffs imposed by President Trump und er the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (IEEPA, 50 U .S.C. §§1701  et seq. ) invalidated the April 2025 tariffs, but President
Trump has declared new tariffs under a different statute, leaving Kenya with a 10% tariff on most
exports to the United States.134 The AGOA reauthorization does not override this duty.
U.S. Assistance . Kenya has routinely been among  the top recipients of U.S. foreign aid in sub -
Saharan Africa. The Biden Administration  allocated roughly $47 9 million in FY202 4 bilateral aid
129 Financial Times , “Kenya’s Ruto says western leaders have broken ‘climate blood pact’,” September 8, 2025;
France24 , “’Unless the UN is reformed, its own survival is at stake,’ Kenya’s Ruto says,” September 25, 2025; Daily
Nation , “Kenya says defunding UN will be disastrous amid UN withdrawal,” February 10, 2026.
130 President William Samoei Ruto (@Williamsruto), X post,  December 3, 2025.
131 U.S. Census Bureau, “Trade in Goods with Kenya,” accessed February 2026.
132 The White House, “Regulating Imports with a Reciprocal Tariff to Rectify Trade Practices that Contribute to Large
and Persistent Annual United States Goods Trad e Deficits,” April 2, 2025; U.S. Trade Representative (@USTradeRep),
X post, April 7, 2025.
133 AGOA was reauthorized in Div. I, §5019, of the FY2026 Consolidated Appropriations Act ( P.L. 119 -75). On
AGOA and tariffs, see CQ, “Ways and Means signs off on A frica and Haiti trade programs,” December 10, 2025.
134 The White House, “Fact Sheet: President Donald J. Trump Imposes a Temporary Import Duty to Address
Fundamental International Payment Problems,” February 20, 2026. See also CRS Legal Sidebar LSB11398, Supreme
Court Rules Against Tariffs Imposed Under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) .
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   21 for Kenya , largely focused on HIV/AIDS and other health progra ms; more than  $340 million in
FY2023 /FY2024 emergency humanitarian aid ; and over $60 million in FY2023/FY2024  for early
recovery, risk reduction, and resilience (ER4) food security programs .135 The Biden
Administration ’s FY2025 bilateral aid request for Kenya was  over $496 million.
The United States has been the largest donor to Kenya’s health sector, which saw child mortality
drop by more than half and life expectancy rise by over 15 years from 2000 -2020.136 The United
States has cumulatively invested ov er $8 billion there under the President’s Emergency Plan for
AIDS Relief (PEPFAR)  since 2003 . From 2013 to 2023, HIV  infections  in Kenya  fell 78% and
related deaths dropped by 68%. The U.S. Embassy reported in 2023 that Kenya, which has
roughly 1.4 million  people living with HIV -AIDS, was on the verge of achieving the UNAIDS
95-95-95 targets (95% of people with HIV diagnosed, 95% of people who know they have HIV
on anti -retroviral therapy, and 95% of those on treatment virally suppressed).137
Some implement ers of U.S. -funded health programs in Kenya reported that suspension of most
U.S. foreign aid by the Trump Administration in late January 2025 hinder ed their ability to
maintain programs, despite public directives from Secretary Rubio to continue life -saving
activities, including under PEPFAR.138 The Administration has not published data on how much
aid previously obligated for Kenya was subsequently cut, but r eports suggest that scores of  aid
contracts  for Kenya  were  terminated . According to one analysis of  the cuts, by late March 2025,
the Trump Administration had terminated roughly $225 million in U.S. assistance for Kenya .139
PEPFAR  represent ed over half of the funding for Kenya ’s HIV programming  before the aid cuts,
and while t he United States and Kenya were planning a transition toward self -sustainability for
the HIV response by 2030, the abrupt changes reportedly left Kenyan health authorities struggling
to find  nearly $260 million to sustain critical  programs.140 UNAIDS reported in April  2025 that
the U.S. funding  disruption had resulted in  HIV treatment facilities working at reduced capacity,
human resource shortfalls, and  HIV prevention programs  scaled down .141 Per UNAIDS, roughly
41,500 health care and community health workers funded under PEPFAR in Kenya were sent
home or directed to stop work  under the initial freeze ; by the end of March, roughly a quarter of
them were back at work.142 The funding freeze also reportedly affected tuberculosis treatment  and
malaria  programs.143 Kenya’s health ministry r eportedly warned in March 2025 that U.S. aid
disruptions triggered a “domino effect that imperils every link in the healthcare chain.”144 Other
reports have since documented impacts of the U.S. aid changes on Kenya’s healthcare system.145
135 USAID, Kenya Assistance Overview , August 2024. For aid obligations, see foreignassistance.gov/c d/kenya/.
136 State Department, “The United States and Kenya: Strategic Partners,” November 16, 2021.  Alongside U.S. foreign
assistance programs, t he U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Walter Reed Army Institute
of Research -Africa  have long -standing partnerships with Kenya, including on disease surveillance . The United States
donated over 12 million COVID -19 vaccine doses to Kenya .
137 U.S. Embassy Nairobi, “PEPFAR in Kenya,” August 10, 2023, available at https://ke.usembassy.gov/ pepfar/ .
138 See, e.g., Washington Post , “Trumps PEPFAR cuts upend the lives of Kenyan families battling HIV,” April 5, 2025.
139 Justin Sandefur and Charles Kenny, “USAID Cuts: New Estimates at the Country Level,” Center for Global
Development (CGD), March 26, 2025.
140 Washington Post , “Trump’s PEPFAR cuts upend the lives of Kenyan families battling HIV,” April 5, 2025.
141 UNAIDS, “ Impact of US funding freeze on HIV programmes in Kenya,” April 5, 2025.
142 Washington Post , “Trump’s PEPFAR cuts upend the lives of Kenyan families battling HIV,” April 5, 2025.
143 New York Times , “Tuberculosis resurgent as Trump funding cut disrupts treatme nt globally,” March 11, 2025.
144 Devex , “Kenyan govt internal memo warns of ‘domino effect’ of US health cuts,” March 26, 2025.
145 Physicians for Human Rights, “The System is folding in on itself”: The Impact of U.S. Global Health Funding Cuts
in Kenya , July 2025.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   22 The U.S. assistance  disruptions and cuts have had implications beyond the health sector. In March
2025, protesters and police clashed in Kakuma refugee camp after the World Food Program
reduced rations due to funding shortfalls, and some reports suggest the U.S. assistance c uts led to
deaths in the camp.146 Aid cuts have also led relief agencies to scale back food aid to Kenyans
affected by severe drought.147 U.S. support for wildlife conservation, primary education, food
security, anti -corruption, and election integrity were a lso among the programs reportedly
terminated.148 In August 2025, as a result of the Administration’s foreign aid review, the U.S.
Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) terminated a $60 million MCC threshold program that
aimed to improve transport and land use in Nairobi.
New Health Framework.  In December 2025, the State Department announced Kenya as the first
country to sign a “Health Cooperation Framework,” a new bilateral arrangement through which
the Trump Administration plans to provide assistance unde r its America First Global Health
Strategy.149 Under the Kenya deal, the United States would provide $1.6 billion in global health
funding to the country over the next five years, supporting not only medicine and care but also
health care infrastructure, wh ile Kenya would increase its domestic health expenditures by $850
million over the five -year period, assuming greater financial responsibility as U.S. support
decreases.  According to the State Department, the compact would address “priority health
programs  in Kenya including HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis (TB), malaria, maternal and child health,
polio eradication, disease surveillance, and infectious disease outbreak response and
preparedness.”150 The deal has been controversial in Kenya, in part due to data privac y concerns,
and a Kenyan court has suspended its implementation pending a constitutional challenge.151
Security Cooperation.  The United States has supported various  efforts to help build Kenya’s
capacity to counter terrorist attacks, secure its borders, con tribute to multinational stabilization
operations, professionalize its security forces, and foster police accountability. The extent to
which these programs have been affected by the Trump Administration’s foreign aid cuts remains
unclear. Kenya, which rou tinely receives U.S. military assistance, has also regularly been the
largest sub -Saharan African recipient of State Department -administered Anti -Terrorism
Assistance (ATA) for law enforcement. Reports suggest that training and aid via the U.S. Special
Program for Embassy Augmentation and Response (SPEAR), which is funded through ATA,
helped an elite Kenyan unit respond rapidly to Al Shabaab’s 2019 attack on the DusitD2 hotel in
Nairobi, significantly limiting the loss of life.152 Among other recent security  assistan ce
146 New Yorker , “The shutdown of U.S.A.I.D. has already killed hundreds of thousands,” November 5, 2025 and
“Rovina’s Choice,” November 4, 2025; The New Humanitarian , “Cut to the bone, The cost of ration cuts and delivery
delays in Kenya’s refugee  camps,” August 26, 2025;  and Pro Publica , “Inside the Trump Administration’s Man -Made
Hunger Crisis,” December 17, 2025.
147 Reuters, “Drought deepens hunger in northern Kenya as aid cuts bite,” February 19, 2026.
148 Devex, “How the US foreign aid freeze thr eatens African conservation work,” February 2025; Afrianews, “Kenya
wildlife park fears poacher resurgence after USAID cuts,” August 26, 2025; “The Independent, “The struggle to protect
wildlife around the world as Trump’s aid cuts start to bite,” August 1 , 2025; TIME , “Her small business helps disabled
kids learn. USAID cuts have pushed it towards bankrup tcy,” March 4, 2025.
149 For more, see State Department, America First Global Health Strategy , September 2025.
150 State Department, “United States and Kenya  Sign Five -Year, $2.5 Billion Health Cooperation Framework,”
December 4, 2025.
151 Jurist, “Kenya dispa tch: High Court halts Kenya -US health deal over constitutional concerns,” December 30 2025.
On the data privacy concerns, see, e.g., Allan Maleche et al., “Health data protection and governance under the Kenya -
US Health Agreement,” Harvard Health and Human Rights Journal , December 17, 2025.
152 Reuters, “After Westgate Debacle, Quick End to Latest Kenyan Attack Shows Progress,” January 20, 2019.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   23 obligations, the State Department has provided over $71 million in funding for a major runway
expansion at Kenya’s Manda Bay Air Base, the latest U.S. upgrade at the site.153
The Department of Defense (DOD) has notified over $500 million in CT “train and equip”
support for Kenya in the past two decades, including to support its role as in the AU mission in
Somalia. State Department -funded security assistance  has also supported Kenya’s deployment to
Somalia, and ongoing deliberations over funding  for AUSSOM have implications for the
mission’s  future. Some Members of the 119th Congress have sought to restrict the use of assessed
contributions to the United Nations to support the AU mission through S. 1583 .154
The Biden Administration was a leading advocate for the MSS mission in Haiti and Kenya’s role
in it. Under Biden, the State Department and DOD pledged over $380 million in support for the
mission , including  training, equipm ent, logistics and life support services, and salary support for
participating officers; the Biden Administration reportedly overrode congressional holds in mid -
2024 to obligate fund s for Kenya’s deployment.155 Some Members of Congress raised concern s
about the mission, but Secretary Rubio stated in his confirmation hearing that Kenyans “deserve a
lot of credit for being willing to take on that mission,” and he reported in early 2025, after the
Administration ’s aid review  began , that U.S. support for the MSS would be excepted from the aid
freeze.156 Under the Trump Administration, the State Department has reported that the United
States has provided over $1 billion to support the MSS; U.S. officials have asserted t hat “America
cannot continue shouldering such a significant financial burden” and called on other international
donors to step up support.157 Kenya’s role in the new Gang Suppression Force remains unclear,
but the Administration has pledged continued suppor t for the mission.
The new head of U.S. Africa Command (AFRICOM), Gen. Dagvin Anderson, has described
Kenya as “a key partner for peace and security in Africa” and characterized the security
partnership as one “built over many years around shared interest s, shared challenges, and a shared
commitment to regional stability.”158 Kenyan forces routinely participate in joint exercises
organized by AFRICOM and Kenya often hosts Justified Accord, AFRICOM’s largest exercise in
East Africa, which is focused on enhan cing peacekeeping capabilities. In 2025, Kenya co -hosted
the African Chiefs of Defense Conference with AFRICOM, bringing together military leaders
from more than three dozen African countries. The Massachusetts National Guard is paired with
Kenya in the Na tional Guard State Partnership Progra m.
153 Task & Purp ose, “US starts $70 million upgrade to Kenyan airfield used in Somalia operations,” February 1, 2026;
Stars & Stripes, “Living quarters upgrade in works at Kenya camp key to US operations in Somalia,” November 18,
2025.
154 Senate Foreign Relations Committee  (SFRC) , “Risch, Cruz, Scott Introduce Bill to protect American taxpayer
dollars from African peacekeeping operation,” May 2, 2025.
155 SFRC, “Risch on Biden Admin’s Decision to Override Congress on Haiti MSS Funding,” June 20, 2024.
156 SFRC, Hearing  on Pending Nominations, January 15, 2025; and State Department, Secretary of State Marco Rubio
and Dominican President Luis Abinader at a Joint Press Availability, February 6, 2025.
157 US. Mission to the United Nations, Remarks at a UN Security Council Br iefing on Haiti, April 21, 2025; State
Department, “Advancing U.S. Foreign Policy Priorities in Haiti: Deliverables and Next Steps,” September 24, 2025.
158 AFRICOM, “U.S. -Kenyan partnership advances security cooperation,” January 29, 2026.
Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service  R48072  · VERSION 17 · UPDATED  24
Author Informa tion
Lauren Ploch Blanchard
Specialist in African Affairs
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan
shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and
under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other
than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in
connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not
subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in
its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or
material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to
copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.