Connecting Co nstituents to Health
Information and Services: Resources for
Congressional Offices
Updated February 26, 2026
Congressional Research Service
https://crsreports.congress.gov
R48191
Congressional Research Service
SUMMARY
Connecting Co nstituents to Health Information
and Services: Resources for Congressional
Offices
As part of their representational activities , Memb ers of Congress and their staff s provide
a range of information and services to  constituents . Some  constituent communications
reflect  concerns about  health and health care . Constitue nts may have , for example,
difficulty  finding and using health  coverage ; questions about finding health providers
and facilities;  hardships related to medical costs;  requests for information on diseases ,
conditions , or treatments;  or complaint s about health providers , facilities,  and products .
To address these concerns, c ongressional offices may refer  eligible constituents  to
various f ederal, state, and local resources and programs .
This report compiles selected resources and contacts that cong ressional offices can use
when responding to constituents’ inquiries regarding health and health care concerns .
When possible , it lists federally  funded referral services that provide individual
assistance to constituents  and match es specific circumstances  to relevant federal, state, or local programs .
Constituents can use  these online resources , or discuss  their specific situations with  trained  staff at the listed
hotlin es, to identify and access programs, resources,  and benefits relevant to their needs.
This report  is organized into five sections , with resources and contacts for
• finding and using health coverage ;
• finding health providers and facilities ;
• financial hardship  related to medical costs ;
• information on diseases, conditions, and treatments ; and
• complaints about health care providers, facilities, or products .
The Appendix  lists selected CRS reports for congressional clients seeking (1) additional resources to support
their work with constituents and (2) background on some of the programs and policy issues mentioned in this
report.  This report is not intended to be a compreh ensive catalog of all relevant resources  and contacts ; rather, it
emphasizes  federal or federally  supported resources  and hotlines  to address constituents’ frequently asked
questions .
R48191
February 26, 2026
Sarah K. Braun
Research Librarian
Kate M. Costin
Senior Research Librarian
Michele L. Malloy
Senior Research Librarian
Angela Napili
Senior Research Librarian
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service  Contents
Introduction  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 1
Resources and Contacts on Health Coverage  ................................ ................................ ..................  1
General Resources on Finding and Understanding Health Coverage  ................................ ....... 1
Types of Health Coverage  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  3
Private Health Insurance  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 3
Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP)  ................................ .... 3
Medicare  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................  4
Military Health System  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 5
Veterans Health Administration  ................................ ................................ ..........................  5
Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHB)  ................................ .......................  6
Indian Health Service (IHS)  ................................ ................................ ................................  6
Resources and Contacts for Finding Health Care Providers and Facilities  ................................ ..... 7
Finding Health Care P rofessionals and Facilities  ................................ ................................ ..... 7
Resources and Contacts for Financial Hardship  ................................ ................................ ..............  8
Finding Help with Medical Bills or Medical Debt  ................................ ................................ .... 8
Finding Free or Low -Cost Health Care  ................................ ................................ .....................  9
Finding General Financial Support  ................................ ................................ ..........................  11
Resources and Contacts on Diseases, Conditions, and Treatments  ................................ ...............  12
General Health Hotlines, Directories, and Information Resources  ................................ .........  12
HIV/AIDS  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  13
Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders (Behavioral Health)  ................................ .........  13
Pharmaceuticals ................................ ................................ ................................ .......................  14
Resources and Contacts fo r Complaints  ................................ ................................ ........................  14
General Resources  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................  15
Complaints About Drugs, Medical Devices, Dietary Supplements, and Vaccines  ..................  15
Complaints About Health Care Facilities and Providers  ................................ .........................  15
Appendixes
Appendix. Selected CRS Reports  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 17
Contacts
Author Information  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................  18
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   1 Introduction
As part of their representational activities, Members of Congress and their staff s provide a range
of informa tion and services to constituents. Some constituent communications reflect concerns
about health and health care , such as  problems finding or using health coverage,  questions about
finding health providers and facilities,  difficulties with paying for medic al care,  hardships related
to health conditions, and complaints about health provider s, facilities,  and products. To address
these concerns, congressional offices may refer eligible constituents to various f ederal, state, and
local programs and resources.
This report compiles selected resources and contacts that congressional offices can use w hen
responding to constituents’ inquiries regarding health and health care concerns . When possible , it
lists federally  funded referral services that provide  individual assistance to constituents  and
match es specific circumstances to relevant federal, state, or local programs . Constituents can use
these  online resources , or discuss their specific situations with trained staff at the listed hotlines,
to identif y and access programs, resources, and benefits relevant to their needs.
This report is organized into five sections , with resources and contacts for
• finding and using health coverage ;
• finding health providers and facilities ;
• financial hardship  related t o medical costs ;
• information on diseases, conditions, and treatments ; and
• complaints about health care providers, facilities, or products.
The Appendix  lists selected CRS reports for congressional clients seeking  (1) additional
resources to support their work with constituents and  (2) background on some of the programs
and policy issues mentioned in this report.
This report is not intended to be a comprehensive catalog of all relevant resources; rather, it
emphasizes  selected federal  or federally  funded resources for questions that constituents
frequently ask .
Resources and Contacts on Health Coverage
The information and contacts below may help congressional offices reply to consumers with
questions about  finding health coverage  and problems with using their specific health coverage .
General Resources on Finding and Understanding Health Coverage
Some constituents may be eligible for free or low -cost coverage through Medicaid, the State
Children’s Health Insurance Program  (CHIP) , or private coverage through health insurance
exchanges  (also called marketplaces) . The resources below , maintained  by the Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) , can help constituents learn about and apply for such
coverage.1
• HealthCare.gov (1 -800-318-2596)
https://www.healthcare.gov/
1 CRS Report R47351, Noncitizens’ Access to Health Care , summarizes health coverage options and eligibility for
noncitizens,  including authorized and unauthorized immigrants , which may differ from options for U.S. citizens.
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   2 This website and hotline connect constituents to the relevant federal or state
health insurance exchange  (marketplace) , where constituents can learn if they
may be eligible for Medicaid, CHIP, or the exchange’s private heal th plans (as
well as premium and cost -sharing subsidies). Constituents can also compare
health plans and apply for coverage. Assistance is available in multiple
languages.
• HealthCare.gov: Find Local Help
https://www.healthcare.gov/find -local -help/
This online directory identifies  state and local organizations  and “assisters”
trained to help constituents understand their health coverage options  (including
private coverage, Medicaid, and CHIP), deter mine eligibility for premium and
cost-sharing subsidies, and provide enrollment assistance . The directory also
includes insurance agents and brokers.
In general, health  plan enrollees may contact their plans  directly to verify enrollment or to ask
about coverage of specific  drugs, medical services, and health care providers. Enrollees can find
their health plan ’s customer service phone number on their insurance card  or on the health plan’s
website . Below are additional resource s maintained by CMS  that provide  contacts for  health
coverage  questions and problems.
• Consumer Assistance Program
https://www.cms.gov/ cciio/ resources/ consu mer-assistance -grants
This website provides an interactive map  of state -level contacts for assistance
with health insurance questions . Some states operate  Consumer Assistance
Programs (CAPs) , where staff can assist with health insurance problems and
quest ions.  For states with no CAP, the map links to other contacts for resolving
health insurance problems , such as the state insurance department  or Medicaid
agency .
• Coverage to Care
https://www .cms.gov/ priorities/ health -equity/ c2c
This website  provides  consumer booklets  and videos  on using health coverage to
get care. Topics include  “Navigate Your Coverage,” “Access Care,” and “Manage
Your Chronic Condition,” among other s. Some resources have been translated to
other languages.
• Find a patient advocate
https://www.cms.gov/ medical -bill-rights/ help/ guides/ patient -advocate
This website has tips and resources for finding a patient advocate. For
constituents with chronic or serious health conditions, patient advocates can help
navigate the health care system, for example by helping patients  communicate
with insurers and providers to obtain needed care .2
2 According to the  National Cancer Institute, a patient advocate is a “ person who helps guide a patient through the
healthcare system. This includes help going through the screening, diagnosis, treatment, and follow -up of a medical
condition, such as cancer. A patient advoc ate helps patients communicate with their healthcare providers so they get the
information they need to make decisions about their health care. Patient advocates may also help patients set up
appointments for doctor visits and medical tests and get financi al, legal, and social support. They may also work with
insurance companies, employers, case managers, lawyers, and others who may have an effect on a patient’s healthcare
needs. Also called patient navigator .” National Cancer Institute, Dictionary of Cance r Terms , https://www.cancer.gov/
publications/ dictionaries/ cancer -terms/ def/patient -advocate .
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   3 Types of Health Coverage
Private Health Insurance
Private Health Insurance (PHI) is the most common form of health coverage in the United States .
PHI p lans are subject to federal and state requirements. PHI plan enrollees  generally obtain their
coverage through either, or occasionally both, of the following sources: an employment setting
(group plans) or directly from an insurer (nongroup plans). The non group market (also called the
individual market) and the small -group market include plans sold on and off the health insurance
exchanges. The Appendix  includes CRS reports that provide background information on this
topic .
• Employee Benefits Security Administration: Ask EBSA  (1-866-444-3272 )
https://www.dol.gov/ agencies/ ebsa/ about -ebsa/ ask-a-question/ ask-ebsa
This website connects c onstituents with benefit advisors at the U.S. Department
of Labor ’s Employe e Benefits Security Administration  (EBSA).  Benefit advisors
can respond to questions about an enrollee’s job-based health coverage .
Constituents can also submit their questions or complaints through an online
form  available on this website . EBSA can assist  with “self -insured” plans, which
are typically health insurance plans received through large employers or
employers with locations in more than one state or country .
• Mental Health Treatment: What Does Health Insurance Cover?
https://www.samhsa.gov/find -support/how -to-pay-for-treatment/know -what -
your-insurance -covers
This website from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration (SAMHSA) provides guidance on how to identify an enrollee’s
mental health and substance abuse treatment coverage under their existing health
plan.  Most private health insurance plans cover mental health and substance
abuse treatment. However , not all plans cover such treatment,  and some will
cover only certain levels of care.
Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP)
Medicaid and CHIP are means -tested health coverage programs for certain low -income
populations. Each state designs and administers its own Medicaid and CHIP programs within
federal guidelines. Eligibility criteria and benefits vary by state. Medicaid finan ces primary and
acute medical services, as well as long -term services and supports . CHIP  provides health
coverage to certain  children and pregnant people with family incomes too high to qualify for
Medicaid.  The following resources, provided by the Centers  for Medicare & Medicaid Services ,
help constituents identify offices and information on CHIP and Medicaid.  The Appendix  includes
CRS reports that p rovide background on these programs.
• Where Can People Get Help With Medicaid & CHIP?
https://www.medicaid.gov/ about -us/where -can-people -get-help-medicaid -chip/
index.html
This website lists state program websites and contacts for determining  Medicaid
and CHIP eligibility, applying for Medicaid or CHIP , and getting assistance with
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   4 other related questions and problems . If a state agency cannot help, the CMS
headquarters number for Medicaid questions is 877-267-2323 .3
• CMS Regional Offices
https://www.cms.gov/ about -cms/ where -we-are/regional -offices
This website lists email addresses for CMS regional offices  that can help answer
beneficiaries’ questions and concerns. Among its other duties, CMS  is the federal
agency that provides federal administrative guidance and oversight for Medicaid
and CHIP. Ho wever, the state Medicaid agency is often  a better first point of
contact; see CMS’s “ You Must Contact Your State Medicaid Agency to  ... ” at
https://www.m edicaid.gov/ about -us/where -can-people -get-help-medicaid -chip/
index.html .
• InsureKidsNow.gov (1 -877-KIDS -NOW or 1 -877-543-7669)
https://www.insurekidsnow.gov/coverage
This website and hotline can assist constituents with questions about Medicaid
and CHIP health and dental coverage for children. The site also lists  each state’s
CHIP and Medicaid contact information.
Medicare
Medicare is a federal program that pays for covered  health care services of qualified
beneficiaries. It was established in 1965 under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide
health insurance to individuals aged 65 and older, and it has been expanded over the years to
include permanently disabled individuals under the age of 65. Medicare, which consists of four
parts (A -D), covers hospitalizations, physician services, prescription drugs, skilled nursing
facility care, home health visits, and hospice care, among other services. Generally, individual s
are eligible for Medicare if they or their spouse worked for at least 40 quarters in Medicare -
covered employment, are aged 65 or older , and are a citizen or permanent resident of the United
States. Individuals may also qualify for coverage if they are a younger person who cannot work
because they have a medical condition that is expected to last at least one year or result in death,
or have end -stage renal disease (permanent kidney failure requiring dialysis or transplant). The
Appendix  includes CRS reports that provide additional background on this program.
• Medicare.gov
https://www.medicare.gov/
This websi te provides extensive information about Medicare basics, coverage,
providers and services, claims and appeals, and help options.
• Medicare & You
https://www.medicare.gov/ medicare -and-you
This handbook is a beneficiary’s guide to Medicare. Available in print and
electronic formats, this resource is updated each fall and has information about
Medicare benefits, costs, rights, and protections. Beneficiaries are mailed print
copies, and downloads are available in a variety of formats and languages.
• State Health Insurance Assistance Program (SHIP)
https:// www.shiphelp.org/
This resource focuses on SHIPs , which  provide local, in -depth, and objective
insurance counseling and assistance to Medicare -eligible individuals, their
3 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Contact Us , https://www.medicaid.gov/ about -us/contact -us/index.html .
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   5 families, and caregivers. Click “ Find Your Local SHIP ” to select the applicable
state and view contact information and state -level websites.
• Medicare.gov: Contact Medicare
https://www.medicare.gov/ talk-to-someone
This interactive resource facilitates opportunities for individuals to talk or live
chat with a professional about Medicare issues. It provides answers to questions
about  Medicare and includes contacts for topics such as enrollment, complaints
and appeals, and Medicare costs and options. Call 1 -800-MEDICARE (1 -800-
633-4227 ); TTY users can call 1 -877-486-2048 .
• Medicare.gov: Get help with costs
https://www.medicare.gov/ basics/ costs/ help
These sources help Medicare beneficiaries discover savings programs for
premiums, manage prescription drug costs, and lower health plan costs.
Military Health System
The Military Health System (MHS) provides health care to military personnel, retirees, and their
families in Department of Defense (DOD)  hospitals and clinics —known as military treatment
facilities —and through civilian health care providers participating in TRICARE, a DOD -
administered health insurance -like program.  (The Department of Defense is “using a secondary
Department of War designation,” under Executive Orde r 14347 , dated September 5, 2025.) The
Appendix  includes  a CRS report that provide s additional background information on this topic.
• Military Health System Customer Service Community Directory
https://tricare.mil/PatientResources/MHS -Customer -Service -Directory
This website has a directory of TRICARE Contractor Customer  Service hotlines.
It also has a directory of Patient Advocates , Beneficiary Counseling and
Assistance Coordinator s, and  Debt Collection Assistance Officer s at military
hospitals and clinics .
• About the MHS: Contact Us
https://health.mil/ About -MHS/ Contact -Us
This website has contact forms , hotlines , and frequently asked questions on
topics such as reporting fraud  and accessing medical records.
• TRICARE: Patient Res ources : Contact Us
https://tricare.mil/ PatientResources/ ContactUs
This website has a “Call Us” tool to identify appropriate contacts , such as phone
numbers for nurse advice, dental questions , eligibility questions, and more. The
site also has provider directories, forms for asking benefit questions, instructions
for filing complaints, and answers to frequently asked questions.
Veterans Health Administration
The Department of Veterans Affairs (V A)  provides health care and health -related services through
the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). VHA ’s primary mission is to provide health care
services to eligible veterans. It also provides health care to some family members through the
Civilian Health Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (CHAMPV A).  See the
Appendix  for additional CRS products that provide background information about this agency.
• VA: Contact Us
https://www.va.gov/ contact -us/
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   6 This portal provides online and phone contact information for a variety of V A
service s, including health contacts.  This site also includes options to send
messages online: use the “Ask V A” ( https://www.va.gov/contac t-us/ask -va)
option for general questions or the “Messages” feature through a “My
HealtheVet” account ( https://www.va.gov/health -care/send -receive -messages ).
Users must create a verified account to access both services . The V A health
benefits hotline is 877 -222-8387, and the My HealtheVet help desk is 877 -327-
0022. The Veterans Crisis Line (https://www.veteranscrisisline.net/ ) can be
reached by dialing 988 , then press ing 1.
• Find VA Locations: Health Services
https://www.va.gov/ find-locations/ ?facilityType= health
This w ebsite allows users to s earch by location for V A health facilities  and
includes the ability to narrow by service type  (e.g., m ental health, women’s
health).
• Veterans Health Administration
https://www.va.gov/ health/
This website is i ntended for multiple user groups, including veterans, providers,
and policy staff, and it provides resources for specific health conditions and
treatments, as well as  groups such as homeless veterans, seniors and aging
veterans, rural veterans, women veterans.  The website also links to research and
annual reports.
• VA Health Care
https://www.va.gov/ health -care/
This website is i ntended primarily for veterans, and it provides links to health
care resources, locations, and extensive benefit information.
Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHB)
FEHB provides health insuranc e to many federal employees, retirees, and their dependents .
Current Members of Congress and certain congressional staff are not eligible to enroll in plans
offered under FEHB as employees but may be eligible to enroll in retirement . For additional
backgro und information, see the Appendix .
• Contact Healthcare & Insurance
https://www.opm.gov/ healthcare -insurance/ contact -healthcare -insurance/
This U.S. Office of Personnel Management website lists contacts for  FEHB
question s, complaints, and disputes . In many  cases, FEHB enrollees can pose
their initial q uestions to their employing agency Human Resources Office or the ir
health plan.
Indian Health Service  (IHS)
IHS, an agency  within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) , is responsible
for providing federal health services to  American India ns and Alaska Natives.  For additional
information on this topic, see the Appendix .
• IHS: For Patients
https://www.ihs.gov/ forpatients/
This portal allows patients to gather a variety of health -related  information,
including information on health topics, health care, personal health records, and
patient forms.
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   7 • IHS: Find Health Care
https://www.ihs.gov/ forpatients/ findhealthcare/
This website provides search box and map options to locate  Indian Health
Service, Tribal, or Urban Indian Health Program facilit ies. Users ca n narrow to
specific facility types, including dental clinics and behavioral health facilities.
• IHS: Contact Information
https://www.ihs.gov/ contact/
This website provides specific forms regarding website iss ues or claims status.
Public Affairs Office contact information is also provided.
• IHS: Frequently Asked Questions
https://www.ihs.gov/ forpatients/ faq/
This compilation of  basic questions applicable to individuals seeking health care
and benefits through the agency  includes information regarding eligibility,
access, and complaints.
Resources and Contacts for Finding Health Care
Providers and Facilities
Constituents may seek help finding local health care facilities or providers.  In addition to the
sources below , which provide initial assistance , a number of states offer tools that may help
congressional offices respond to  such requests.  Constituents may also contact their health
insurance  (e.g., private health insurance, Medicare, Medicaid) to identify providers and determine
if provider s are in-network or accept their insurance.
Finding Health Care Professionals  and Facilities
• MedlinePlus: Directories
https://medlineplus.gov/ directories/
This National Library of Medicine (NLM) website provides links to directories to
help constituents find libraries, health professionals, services, and facilities. NLM
does not endorse or recommend the organ izations that produce these directories,
nor the individuals or organizations that are included in the directories .
• Healthcare.gov : Getting regular medical care
https://www.healthcare.gov/ using -marketplace -coverage/ getting -medical -care/
This website provides tips on locating providers who participate in an
individual’s he alth plan.
• Medicare.gov: Care Compare
https://www.medicare.gov/ care-compare/
This tool can be used to find and compare different types of Medicare providers,
including physicians, hospitals,  and nursing homes.
• U.S. Department of Health and Human Services : Health Care Providers &
Facilities
https://www.hhs.gov/ programs/ social -services/ health -care-faciliti es/index.html
This listing of governmental sources allows users to l ocate health care providers
and facilities and compare  options.  The list i ncludes free or low -cost care (Health
Resources & Services Administration), Alzheimer’s Disease Research Centers
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   8 (National Institutes of Health, or NIH ), Cancer Centers (NIH), and
Mammography Certified Facilities (FDA).
• U.S. Department of Health and Human Services:  Choosing a Doctor: Quick Tips
https://odphp.health.gov/myhealthfinder/doctor -visits/regular -
checkups/choosing -doctor -quick -tips
This guide offers suggestions for patients on  how to choose and evaluate their
primary care doctor.
• Health Care Practitioners databases in State Agency Databases
https://godort.libguides.com/ healthpractionerdbs
This compilation of sta te databases is maintained by the American Library
Association’s Government Documents Round Table and includes links to state -
specific sources of information regarding various health professionals.  Database
content varies by state, but constituents can oft en use these databases to verify a
health professional’s license and to check for disciplinary actions .
Resources and Contacts for Financial Hardship
The contacts and information  below may help congressional offices respond to constituents
facing financi al hardship due to medical costs. These  resources can also help constituents find
information on free or low -cost health care and general financial support. For information on
assist ing uninsured constituents, see the “General Resources on Finding and Understanding
Health Coverage ” section.
Finding Help with Medical Bills or Medical Debt
The following resources may help constituents facing hardship with medical bills or medical debt.
• Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Ser vices:  Call the  No Surprises Help Desk (1 -
800-985-3059)
https://www.cms.gov/ medical -bill-rights/ help
The CMS No Surprises Help Desk and website can provide “answers about  your
medical billing situation.” The No Surprises Act protects consumers from certain
unexpected out -of-network medical bills.4 Help Desk staff can help constituents
determine whether the No Surprises Act applies to their situation. If constituents
believe that their provider  or insurer is not following relevant billing rules, they
can submit a complaint. The Help Desk can also direct constituents to other
resources and agencies if their billing situation is not covered by the No Surprises
Act. Phone assistance is available in  multiple languages. Constituents can also
use online forms to ask questions, submit complaints, and dispute bills .
• Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services:  How to apply for financial
assistance
https://www.cms.gov/medical -bill-rights/help/guides/financial -assistance
From the No Surprises Help Desk, this page describes options for obtaining
assistance with hospi tal bills.
4 CRS Report R46856, Surprise Billing in Private Health Insurance: Overview of Federal Consumer Protections and
Payment for Out -of-Network Services , summarizes consumer protections in the No Surprises Act ( P.L. 116 -260,
Division BB, Title I).
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   9 • Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: Is there financial help for my medical
bills?
https://www.consumerfinance.gov/ ask-cfpb/ is-there-financial -help-for-my-
medical -bills-en-2124/
This Consumer Financial Protection Bureau website has tips for how to ask about
and apply for hospital financial assistance programs. Some states have charity
care laws that require certain hospitals to pr ovide free or disco unted care to
eligible patients. Federal law also generally requires nonprofit hospitals to have a
written Financial Assistance Policy and a written Emergency Medical Care
policy .5
• Federal Trade Commission : Consumer Advice: Debt Collect ion F AQs
https://consumer.ftc.gov/ articles/ debt-collection -faqs
This Federal Trade Commission website provides answers to questions that
constituents may have about debt collection, including medical debt collection. In
particular, this resource provides information about consumer rights  under the
Fair Debt Collection Practices Act .
• MedlinePlus: Financial Assistance
https://medlineplus.gov/ financialassistance.html
This National Library of Medicine website provides curated resources and tips
for paying fo r health care. For example, it notes that “ you can also discuss
concerns about paying your medical bills with your health care provider, social
worker or the business office of your clinic or hospital ” and links to patient
handouts such as “Eight ways to c ut health care costs.”
• National Institutes of Health: Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center (1 -
888-205-2311) : How can you afford the care you need?
https://resources.rarediseases.info.nih.gov/Resources/s/article/PatientResources -
AffordingCare
This National Institutes of Health information center has compiled resources on
affording medical care . Many of the listed organizations assist with a wide range
of serious medical conditions, not just genetic and rare diseases. Constituents can
also call or email the center, where staff can refer them to additional resources for
their specific needs.
Finding Free or Low-Cost Health Care
The resources below can help constituents find free or affordable health services in their
communities.
• Health Resources & Services Administration: Get Health Care
https:/ /www.hrsa.gov/get -health -care
The “Get Affordable Healthcare” section of this Health Resources & Services
Administration (HRSA) website includes directories for (1) health centers , which
have sliding fee scales and serve people regardless of insurance st atus or ability
to pay ; (2) Hill-Burton facilities , which are required to provide a certain amount
of free or below -cost health care to people who meet income guidelines ; and (3)
5 Internal Revenue Service, Financial Assistance Policy and Emergency Medica l Care Policy – Section 501(r)(4) ,
https://www.irs.gov/ charities -non-profits/ financial -assistance -policy -and-emergency -medical -care-policy -section -
501r4 .
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   10 Ryan White Programs , which provide health care and support services to eligib le
people living with HIV/AIDS.
The resources below provide information on  free or low -cost specialized health services  related to
maternal and child health, family planning, dental health, behavioral health, eye health,
HIV/AIDs, and sexually transmitted infections. (Some of the contacts and websites in the
“Resources  and Contacts  on Diseases , Conditions , and Treatments ” section  also provide
information on free or low -cost specialized health services. )
• Are there any health assistance programs for pregnant women, mothers, and
children?  (1-800-311-BABY)
https://www.hhs.gov/ answers/ health -insurance -reform/ are-there -health -
assistance -programs -for-pregnant -women -mothers -children/ index.html
This U.S. Department of Health and Human Services  website lists contacts for
free or reduced cost prenatal care: 1-800-311-BABY (1 -800-311-2229) ; for
Spanish , call 1-800-504-7081 . These numbers can connect callers to their area’s
health department.
• Maternal and Child Health Bureau: State Hotlines: Natio nal
https://mchb.tvisdata.hrsa.gov/ Home/ StateHotlines
This HHS Maternal and Child Health Bureau website lists state hotlines for
information and assistance with health services for pregna nt persons, maternal
health, infants, and children.
• Find a Family Planning Clinic
https://reproductivehealthservices.gov/
From the HHS Office of Population Affairs, this directory lists clinics
participating in the federal Title X Family Planning Program. Title X clinics offer
family planning counseling and supplies (including contraception and natural
family planning methods ) and related preventive health services (including
cervical cancer screenings). Clients may qualify for free or discounted care.
• Finding Dental Care
https://www.nidcr.nih.gov/ health -info/ finding -dental -care
This National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research website includes
“Where can I find low -cost dental care?” and “R elated publications” which links
to Finding Low -Cost Dental Care: Information for Caregivers . It has contact
information for dental schools, dental hygiene schools, and clinical trials, among
other sources of free or low -cost oral health care.
• FindTreatmen t.gov (800 -662-HELP  or 800 -662-4357 )
https://findtreatment.gov/
This Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration directory can
help constituents find mental health and substance use disorder treat ment
facilities in their communities. The directory includes facilities with sliding fee
scales and payment assistance. After obtaining  search results, click “Show More”
at the bottom of the “Filter by” menu on the left navigation bar,  then filter by
“Paym ent assistance available.” The hotline can also refer callers to local
facilities, support groups, and community -based organizations. For additional
tips, see Find Free or Low -Cost Treatment or Support for Mental Health  and
Substance Use , https://www.samhsa.gov/ find-support/ how-to-pay-for-treatment/
free-or-low-cost-treatment .
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   11 • Get Free or Low -Cost Eye Care
https://www.nei.nih.gov/ learn -about -eye-health/ healthy -vision/ get-free-or-low-
cost-eye-care
This National Eye Institute (NEI) website lists resources and organizations that
offer free or low -cost eye exams , eyeglasses , cataract surgery, glaucoma surgery,
white canes, and blindness prevention services.
• HIV , STI, and Viral Hepatitis Testing and Vaccines Near You
https://gettested.cdc.gov/
This Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website has a directory
of free and confidential HIV , sexually  transmitted infection (STI) , and hepatitis
testing  locations , and organizations that provide home tests by ma il.
• HIV .gov: Find HIV Services Near You
https://locator.hiv.gov/
This searchable HHS map and directory includes local providers of services such
as testing, mail -in self -tests, Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) , condoms, Mpox
vaccine, HIV care and treatment, health centers, behavioral health services,
family planning, and housing assistance.
• Find a Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program Medical Provider
https://findhivcare.hrsa.gov /
This HRSA searchable map and directory can help constituents find local Ryan
White providers. Ryan White Programs  provide a range of health care  services ,
medications, and support services to eligible people living with HIV/AIDS.
Finding General Financial Support
The resources below can help constituents identify other benefits and services for which they may
be eligible. Although some of these programs might not pay for health care directly, they might
provide financial relief in other ways.
• USA.g ov: Government benefits
https://www.usa.gov/ benefits
This online tool, the product of a  federal  interagency collaboration, provides
access to information on federal and state program benefits for individuals.
Programs can be browsed by category  (e.g., “Food assistance,” “Help with utility
bills”). USA.gov also has a phone hotline ( 1-844-USA -GOV1 ) and online chat
https://www.usa.gov/ chat.
• 211: Find Help Near You
https://www.211.org/ about -us/your-local -211
This website and phone number can help constituents identify assistance and
resources in their local communities. The Federal Communications Commission
has designated 211 as the three -digit phone number for information and referrals
to social services , rental assistance, food banks, job training, financial assistance,
and other  local  assistance.
• Help for Families
https://www.acf.hhs.gov/ ofa/map/ about/ help-families
This website includes a directory of state “General Benefits” centralized benefit
portals. C onstituents  can use these portals to  find and apply for multiple benefit
program s. The directory also lists state general information hotlines and state
contacts for the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF)  program.
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   12 States use TANF block grants to fund cash assistance and a wide range o f
services and benefits for low -income families with children. This website is
maintained by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of
Family Assistance.
Resources  and Contacts on Diseases, Conditions ,
and Treatments
The resources and con tacts below may help constituents with questions or  problems  related to
health conditions or diseases . These resources  are not a substitute for seeing a health care
provider.  General health hotlines , directories , and information resources  are listed  first, followed
by resources on COVID -19, HIV/AIDS, behavioral health (including mental health and substance
use disorders) , and pharmaceuticals.  Constituents may want to consult state -specific information
sources, such as the state health department, for additi onal information.
General Health Hotlines, Directories, and Information Resources
• CDC -INFO ( 800-CDC -INFO  or 800-232-4636 )
https://www.cdc.gov/ cdc-info/
This source, through  the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, provide s
live phone and email assistance for constituents’  public health and safety
questions  on hundreds of topics . Staff can help callers  “find the latest  and reliable
science -based health information.”
• Federal Health Information Centers and Clearinghouses
https://odphp.health.gov/our -work/national -health -initiati ves/health -
literacy/resources/national -health -information -center/topic
This directory , maintained by  the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, describes federal
hotlines and online resource centers where constituents can receive information
and referrals on a wide range of health -related topics a nd services.
• Health Info Lines
https://stagetestdomain3.nih.gov/health -information/health -info-lines
This directory lists National Institutes of Health phone numbers tha t the public
can call to ask about topics such as stroke, diabetes, cancer, Alzheimer’s Disease,
women’s health, and more.
• MedlinePlus
https://medlineplus.gov/
This website, from the National Library of Medicine,  connects constituents to
plain language information on health and medical topics, including drugs and
supplements, disorders and conditions, and diagnosis and therapy. Many of the
topic pages have a “Find an Expert” section  that direct s constituents to
information and services for their specific needs . Materials are available in
English and Spanish.
• MedlinePlus: Directories
https://medlineplus.gov/ directories/
This NLM directory list can help constituents find libraries, health professionals,
services, and facilities. NLM does not endorse or recommend the organizations
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   13 that produce these directories, nor the individuals or organizations included in the
directori es.
• MedlinePlus: Organizations
https://medlineplus.gov/ organizations/ all_organizations.html
This list, from  NLM , includes governmental and selected nongovernmental
organization s, such as patient support and advocacy groups, that provide
consumer health content on a range of diseases and conditions. Many of these
organizations can help constituents find services  and support groups  for their
conditions.
HIV/AIDS
• State HIV/AIDS Hot lines
https://ryanwhite.hrsa.gov/ hiv-care/ hotlines
This Health Resources & Services Administration website  lists state HIV/AIDS
hotlines for finding information and services. Under “Find Help ,” this page lists
national HIV/AIDS resources, including  the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention’s HIV service locator ( 800-232-4636)  and an HIV information hotline
from the National Institutes of Health ( 800-448-0440 ).
• HIV .gov: Find HIV Services Near You
https://locator.hiv.gov/
This searchable U.S. Department of Health and Human Services map and
directory includes local providers of services such as testing, mail -in self -tests,
Pre-Exposure Pro phylaxis (PrEP) , condoms, HIV care and treatment, health
centers, behavioral health services, and housing assistance.
Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders (Behavioral Health)
• 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline
https ://988lifeline.org/
Constituents can  use the Lifeline to  call, text, or chat with trained counselors.
Persons in distress can dial 988 for free and confidential support 24 hours a day,
seven days a week.  Assistance is available in multiple languages . The Lifeline is
supported by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
• FindSupport.gov (800-662-4357)
http://findsupport.gov
This SAMHSA  national helpline and website provides information and referrals
to local services , support groups, and organizations  for mental health, alcohol,
and substance use disorders .
• National Maternal Mental Health Hotline (1-833-TLC -MAMA , 1-833-852-
6262 )
https://mchb.hrsa.gov/ programs -impact/ national -maternal -mental -health -hotline
This 24/7 phone , text, and chat hotline provides free and confidential  mental
health  support for pregnant and new mothers , as well as referrals to local and
telehealth providers and support groups. Assistance is available in multiple
languages. The hotline is administered by the Health Resources & Services
Administration .
• Disaster Distress Helpline (1-800-985-5990)
https://www.samhsa.gov/ find-help/ disaster -distress -helpline
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   14 Constituents experiencing emotional distress related to natural or human -caused
disasters can call or text this  SAMHSA  helpline . It provides 24/7 year -round
multilingual crisis counselin g, coping tips, and referrals for follow -up support .
The helpline is open to anyone affected by disasters , including survivors, victims’
loved ones, parents, caregivers, first responders, clergy, and rescue, recovery, and
relief workers. Disasters may include mass violence incidents, community unrest
incidents,  anniversaries and trigger events,  infectious disease outbreaks, and
natural disasters , such as earthquakes, storms, and wildfires , among other
disasters.
Pharmaceuticals
• FDA Drug Shortages
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/ scripts/ drugshortages/ default.cfm
This Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) database provides up -to-date drug
shortage information , including manufacturer contact information, current
product a vailability , and estimated  shortage duration . This database can be
searched by product name or active ingredient.
• Drug Recalls
https://www.fda.gov/ drugs/ drug-safety -and-availability/ drug-recalls
This FDA website provides an interactive, searchable table with drug recall
information. A drug recall is a voluntary action by a drug manufacturer to remove
a defective drug product from the market or warn patients and consumers about a
potential risk. A recall is conducted on a company’s own initiative or by FDA
request. The information in this table is acquired by the FDA through public
notification of a recall issued by the drug manufacturer .
• FDA Pharmacists Help You Use Medicines Safely
https://www.fda.gov/ consumers/ consumer -updates/ fda-pharmacists -help-you-
use-medicines -safely
This consumer site from FDA’s  Division of Drug Information (DDI) provides the
contact  information for FDA’s sta ff of pharmacists who re spond to questions
about human drugs for the U.S. public.  DDI staff respond to inquiries such as
how to identify a tablet or pill, possible drug side effects, and how to discard
unused medication.
• National Prescription Drug Take Back Day
https://www.deadiversion.usdoj.gov/ drug_disposal/ takeback/ takeback.html
This U.S. Department of Justice’s Drug Enforcement Administration event aims
to provide a safe, convenient, and responsible means of disposing of prescription
drugs, while also educating the general public about the potential for abuse of
medications.  This web site allows users to search for a nearby collection site and
information on year -round pharmaceutical disposal locations.
Resources and Contacts for Complaints
When c onstituents contact congressional offices with complaints about health care providers,
facilities, or products , the resources and contacts below may help such constituents  file their
complaints with the appropriate agency . For complaints about providers, facilities, and products
not listed below , congressional offices can contact CRS .
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   15 General Resources
• Complaints & Appeals
https://www.hhs.gov/ regulations/ complaints -and-appeals/ index.html
This U.S. Department of Health and Human Services  website compiles links for
filing complaints about health care civil rights and discrimination, health
information privacy, poor hospital care, health insurance company decisions, and
health care fraud, abuse, and waste , among other types of health care co mplaints.
• How to Complain and Get Heard
https://www.ahrq.gov/ patients -consumers/ patient -involvement/ how-to-
complain.html
This Agency for Healthcare Researc h and Quality website has tips and contacts
for constituents to communicate and complain effectively  about unsafe or low -
quality care . The website also links to state medical boards that can help
constituents file complaints in their state.
Complaints About Drugs, Medical Devices, Dietary Supplements ,
and Vaccines
• Contact FDA  (1-888-INFO -FDA , or FDA’ s emergency line 1-866-300-4374 )
https://www.fda.gov/ about -fda/contact -fda
This FDA website explain s how constituents can report problems with FDA -
regulated products , including  drugs, medical devices, infant formula, and dietary
supplements. It also provides a link that directs users to information on current
product recalls .
• Report a Product Problem through SmartHub
https://www.safetyreporting.hhs.gov/smarthub#/
FDA’s SmartHub is designed to help users  navigate to the appropriate form or
resources to report a problem with an F DA-regulated human or animal product ,
adverse health, or facility issue.
• MedWatch Online Voluntary Reporting Form
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/ scripts/ medwatch/ index.cfm
This FDA form allows h ealth professionals, consumers , and patients to
voluntarily report observed or suspected adverse events for human medical
products to the agency . Consumers can submit a MedWatch V oluntary Report  to
the FDA to report an issue with a drug, medical device, or other medical product.
• Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System  (VAERS) (1-800-822-7967)
https://vaers.hhs.gov/
This online form allows  constituents  to report a rea ction or adverse event
following a vaccination. Reports may be submitted by patients, parents,
caregivers, health care providers, and vaccine manufacturers . V AERS is
cosponsored by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the FDA .
Complaints About Health Care Facilities and Providers
In general, s tates are the primary regulators of health facilities  and providers , so constituents may
want to contact their specific state’s department of health for additional options.
For complaints about facilities :
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   16 • Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services  (CMS) : Quality, Safety & Oversight –
General Information: Contact Information
https://www.cms.gov/ medicare/ health -safety -standards/ quality -safety -oversight -
general -information/ contact -information
This CMS directory lists state agency phone numbers  and websites  for
complaints about  the quality of care in state - or federally  certified  health care
facilities , such as hospitals . Details about regulated facility types and complaint
procedures vary by sta te.
• File & Submit: Patient Safety Concerns or Complaints
https://www.jointcommission.org/en -us/contact -us/report -a-patient -safety -event
This site from the Office of Quality and Patient Safety within The Joint
Commission, a national accrediting organization of health care facilities, accepts
patient safety complaints . Submissions should  not include medical records,
billing invoices, or other related personal information.
For compl aints about doctors :
• Contact a State Medical Board
https://www.fsmb.org/ contact -a-state-medical -board/
This Federation of State Medical Boards  (FSMB)  website lists “File a
Complaint” l inks in each state  in order to file complaints about physicians .
FSMB also has tips on why, when, and how to report a doctor for unprofessional
conduct or inadequate care, at https://www.docinfo.org/ report -a-doctor/
For complaints about nurses :
• National Council of State Boards of Nursing  (NCSBN) : Contact a U.S. Member
(312-525-3600)
https://www.ncsbn.org/ contactbon
This map links to contact informat ion for state boards of nursing  to submit
complaints about nurses whose behavior is unsafe, negligent, incompetent, or
unethical . Many state boards have complaint forms on their website ; otherwise ,
constituents  can call NCSBN or their state for guidance on how to submit a
complaint. NCSBN  also has a consumer guide to the complaint process, at
https://www.ncsbn.org/ public -files/ A_Health_Care_Consumers_Guide.pdf .
For Medicare -related complaints :
• Medicare.gov: Filing a complaint
https://www.medicare.gov/providers -services/claims -appea ls-
complaints/complaints
This site allows  Medicare beneficiaries  who have concerns about their quality of
care to submit complaints about , for example,  providers, facilities, and health
plans.
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service   17 Appendix.  Selected CRS Reports
The following CRS publications provide additional background  on and analysis of some of the
programs and policy issues  discussed in this report.
Constituent Services
To assist older constituents  or constituents with disabilities,  or their caregivers,  congressional
offices may also consult
• CRS In Focus IF11694, Connecting Older Adults and Individuals with
Disabilities to Health Services: Resources for Congressional Offices .
To assist constituents se eking grants or funding for health facilities, congressional offices may
consult
• CRS Report R48081, Sources of Federal Funding for Health Care Facilities:
Frequently Asked Questions , and
• CRS In Focus IF12 449, Connecting Constituents with Federal Assistance for
Businesses .
For congressional offices that want to work directly with federal agencies as facilitators or
advocates for individual constituents, s ee
• CRS Report 98 -446, Congressional Liaison Offices of Selected Federal Agencies ;
• CRS Report RL33209, Casework in a Congressional Office ; and
• CRS Report R44696, Casework in Congressional Offices: Frequently Asked
Questions .
Health Policy Issues
The following report serves as a starting point for congressional staff assigned to cover issues
related to health care policy. It outlines major government stakeholders , as well as relevant laws,
regulations, federal programs, sources of data, and CRS products :
• CRS Report R43889, Health Policy: Resources for Congressional Offices .
The following CRS reports focus on specific health policy issues  applicable to the areas covered
in this report :
• CRS In Focus IF12169, An Overview of Medical Debt: Collection,  Credit
Reporting, and Related Policy Issues .
• CRS Report R46856, Surprise Billing in Private Health Insurance: Overview of
Federal Consumer Protections and Payment for Out -of-Network Services .
• CRS Rep ort R44832, Frequently Asked Questions About Prescription Drug
Pricing and Policy .
• CRS Report R47507, Private Health Insurance: A Primer .
• CRS Report R43357, Medicaid: An Overview .
• CRS Report R40425, Medicare Primer .
• CRS In Focus IF13031, Medicare Coverage: Background and Resources .
Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services
Congressional Research Service  R48191  · VERSION 5 · UPDATED  18 • CRS Report R46426, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration (SAMHSA): Overview of the Agency and Major Programs .
• CRS In Focus IF10555, Introduction to Veterans Health Care .
• CRS Report R48406, Connecting Veterans and Veterans Organizations to
Federal Transportation Assistance .
• CRS In Focu s IF10530, Defense Primer: Military Health System .
• CRS Report R43922, Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) Program: An
Overview .
• CRS Report R43330, The Indian Health Service (IHS): An Overview .
• CRS In Focus IF10051, Title X Family Planning Program .
• CRS Report R47351, Noncitizens’ Access to Health Care .
Author Information
Sarah K. Braun
Research Librarian
Michele L. Malloy
Senior Research Librarian
Kate M. Costin
Senior Research Librarian
Angela Napili
Senior Research Librarian
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan
shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and
under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other
than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in
connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not
subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in
its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or
material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to
copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.