Public Broadcasting:  Background Information
and Issues for Congress
Updated February 25, 2026
Congressional Research Service
https://crsreports.congress.gov
R48545
Congressional Research Service
SUMMARY
Public Broadcasting: Background Information
and Issues for Congress
Discussion of p ublic i nterest in educational or noncommercial programming da tes to the early
days of broadcasting.  In 1938, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) set aside a
portion of available radio channels for noncommercial and educational broadcasting, periodically
updating policy as technology evolved.
In 1965, the Ca rnegie Corporation of New York  created the Carnegie Commission on
Educational Television to make policy recommendations  on public broadcasting . It recommended that  Congress create a
private, nonprofit corporation to support the development of local and nat ional programming for public television (and later
radio) . This was enacted as part of the Public Broadcasting Act of 1967 (PBA; P.L. 90 -129). The Corporation for Public
Broadcasting (CPB) was subsequently incorporated in 1967 as a private nonprofit corporation  governed by a board of
directors appointed  by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate .
The CPB served as primary custodian of federal investment in public broadcasting until it was defunded by Congress in July
2025 . Congress rescinde d previously enacted  appropriations for FY2026 a nd FY2027 on July 24, 2025 , through the
Rescissions Act of 2025 ( P.L. 119 -28). However, a ppropriations authority  remains under the jurisdiction of the Labor, Health
and Huma n Services, Education, and Related Agencies Subcommittees of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees
should Congress decide to reestablish the CPB in the future.  In addition to funds appropriated to it directly by Congress, the
CPB was authorized to receive federal grant funds from other agencies  for educational programming, support of public
broadcasting emergency alerting functions, and other purposes.
The White House took several actions in 2025 to curtail the CPB’s role in the p ublic broadcasting enterprise, including
directives to dismiss certain members of the CPB Board, to prohibit CPB funding of National Public Radio ( NPR ) and the
Public Broadcasting System ( PBS), and to terminate or repurpose all other grant funding by feder al agencies. Several of these
actions were being litigated in federal court when the CPB announced the planned cessation of its operations. (The CPB
periodically received private donations , but these were not sufficient to sustain operations .) On August 1,  2025, the CPB
announced  that it was beginning an orderly wind ing down of its operations in response to the rescission of congressional
appropriations and Senate appropriators ’ decision not to include CPB funding in their FY2026 appropriations bill . On
January 5, 2026 , the CPB announced its intention to completely dissolve the organization.
The dissolution of the CPB reconfigured the landscape of public broadcasting. Historically, t he CPB distribute d appropriated
funds to independent public broadcasting sta tions and content producers according to a statutory formula . In FY2024,
approximately 10.6% of public television and 6.0% of public radio broadcasting revenue came  from the CPB’s Community
Service Grants (television and radio station grants ). For some stations —particularly those in underserved or rural locations —
the proportion of revenue was much higher. The CPB grants were  the largest single source of funding for public television
and radio stations and for programming development and distribu tion.
Some of the nearly 1,500 independently licensed member stations that previously received CPB funding have announced
staffing and programming cuts or announced plans to cease operations altogether. Many —but not all —of these stations are
members of PBS and NPR , which were  created by the CPB over 50 years ago  to facilitate production and distribution of
programming content in partnership with their member stations . With few exceptions, b oth PBS and NPR have retained
member station affiliations and contin ued operations after the dissolution of the CPB, albeit with cutbacks . Much of their
programming remains widely available as of th e publication  date of this report .
Prior to the defunding of the CPB, m uch of the debate over the future of public broadcasti ng center ed on the value of public
broadcasting as a public good . Advocates for public broadcasting argue d that public broadcasters  provide d balanced and
objective information, news, children’s education, and entertainment in an internet -dominated media environment . Critics
contend ed that public broadcasting has become less essential  and that PBS - and NPR -branded public affairs comment s
reflect ed political and cultural bias . Congress may consider actions to clarify executive branch legal authorities  vis-à-vis
public broadcasting entities . Congress may also consider future annual appropriations to reestablish the  CPB —under either
current or amend ed authorities —or provid e support to public broadcas ting stations or content producers  through other
authorities and programs . Congress may also take no action.  R48545
February 25, 2026
Brian E. Humphreys
Analyst in Science and
Technology Policy
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   Contents
Introduction  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 1
Public Broadcasting Before 1967  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 2
The Public Broadcasti ng Act of 1967  ................................ ................................ ..............................  4
Structure and Leadership of the CPB  ................................ ................................ ........................  5
Appropriations for the CPB  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 7
Other Sources of Federal Support for the CPB  ................................ ................................ .........  8
Ready to Learn Grants  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  8
Public Broadcasting Support for Public Alerts and Warnings  ................................ ............  9
Changes to the NGWS Grant Program for FY2025  ................................ ..........................  11
CPB Support for Independent Broadcasters and Producers  ................................ ...........................  11
The Public Broadcasting Service and National Public Radio  ................................ .......................  13
FCC Chairman’s Request for Investigation of PBS and NPR  ................................ .................  14
Other Public Media Organizations  ................................ ................................ ..........................  15
The Future Federal Role in Public Broadcasting Afte r the Rescission of CPB
Appropriations  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............................  16
Options for Congress  ................................ ................................ ................................ .....................  19
Reestablish and Fund the CPB Under Existing Authorities  ................................ ....................  19
Reestablish and Fund the CPB or Successor Organization with Changes  ..............................  20
Fund Public Broadcasting Through Other Existing Authorities  ................................ ..............  21
Fund Public Broadcasting Activities Through Appropr iations to Federal Agencies  ...............  21
Take No Further Action Regarding the CPB and Public Broadcasting  ................................ ... 22
Figures
Figure 1. Allocation of the CPB’s Federal Appropriation  ................................ .............................  12
Contacts
Author Information  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................  23
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   1 Introduction
The national public broadcasting enterprise includes nearly 3 60 television stations  and 1 ,200
radio station s, which together can transmit communications to 99% of the U.S. population .1 Local
stations are operated by a variety of different entities, includ ing public and private institutions of
higher education , local school districts, state agencies, and nonprofit community organizations .2
In its early decades, this enterprise largely developed without  regular federal funding . Beginning
in the 1960s, broad -based support for alternatives to commercial broadcasting le d to the passage
of legislation that aut horized regular federal funding for public broadcasting . Congressional
appropriations were  distributed to public media  broadcasters and producers through a private
nonprofit corporation incorporated in Washington, DC , which was  known as the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting (CPB) .
The CPB  was authorized  in the Public Broadcasting Act of 1967 (PBA; P.L. 90 -129), enacted  as
an amendment to the Communications A ct of 1934 . The CPB did not own or operate any stations .
On August 1, 2025, the CPB announced  that it would cease operations in January 2026 because of
a lack of funding after Congress rescinded advance appropriations for FY2026 and FY2027 , and
Senate appropriators elected not to include funding in  a version of a Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies  Appropria tions Act , 2026  (S.
2587 ; see also S.Rept. 119 -55).3 House appropriators likewise declined to fund the CPB.4
On January 5, 2026, the CPB announced that its board of directors voted to dissolve the
organization.5 In a court filing the same day, the CPB further explained that it intended to file
articles of dissolution with the DC Mayor’s Office on or about January 30, 2026,  but would be
able to continue certain wind -down activities  after that date .6
Throughout its existence,  the CPB  expanded the  U.S. public broadcasting enterprise through
technology investments and grants to independent local stations and producers  in partnership with
major philanthropies, educational institutions, state and local governments, and corporate and
individual donors . This  expansion enabled production and distribution of programming for
national audiences —capabilities that barely existed  in public broadcasting  before 1967. While
these changes provided diverse programming to national audiences , they also exposed public
broad casting to broader national scrutiny of its cultural content and balance.  The public
broadcasting enterprise may witness changes following the closure of the CPB. Such changes
could include closure of some broadcast stations and adaptation of others to fin d new sources of
1 See Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB), “About CPB,” https://cpb.org/ aboutcpb .
2 See CPB, “CPB FAQ : Who Operates Local Stations? ” https://cpb.org/ faq#2 -3.
3 See CPB, “Corporation for Public Broadcasting Addresses Operations Following Loss of Federal Funding,” press
release, August 1, 2025, https://cpb.org/ pressroom/ Corporation -Public -Broadcasting -Addresses -Operations -Following -
Loss -Federal -Funding .
4 See U.S. Congress, House Appropriations Committee, Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, Education,
and Related Agencies Subcommittee, Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Bill, 2026 , report to accompany H.R. 5304 , 119th Cong., 1st sess., H.Rept. 119 -271, September
11, 2025 , p. 273. The House -passed Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026  (H.R. 7148 ), contained no funding for the
CPB. H.R. 7148  is pending in the Senate as of the date of this publ ication.
5 CPB, “Corporation for Public Broadcasting Board Votes to Dissolve Organization in Act of Responsible Stewardship
to Protect the Future of Public Media,” press release, January 5, 2026, https://cpb.org/ pressroom/ corporation -public -
broadcasting -board -votes -dissolve -organization -act-responsible .
6 Joint Status Report, CPB  v. Trump , No. 1:25 -cv-01305  (D.D.C.  2025),  https://assets.alm.com/ 74/46/
444542bc4f8c888745ebf0ba3695/ gov-uscourts -dcd-279991 -46-0.pdf .
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   2 revenue, as well as less centralized oversight and development of the public broadcasting
enterprise.
This report provides historical background on the national public broadcasting enterprise and the
evolving role of  the federal government and public broadcasting entities in this enterprise as
fundamental changes are enacted . In addition, this report  provides an overview of policy issues
and legislative options  of potential interest  to Congress .
Public Broadcasting B efore 1967
Interest in educational or noncommercial programming dates to the early days of broadcasting.
Beginning in the 1930s, some state universities and other educational institutions seeking to better
serve  rural populations pioneered the use of broad cast radio for remote learning . In 1938, the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) set aside a portion of available radio channels for
noncommercial and educational broadcasting , periodically updating policy as technology
evolved .7 During this period, advocates viewed such broadcasting as a form of public education
similar to that provided in public schools, which  they argued should be free from commercial
pressures and influences.8
In the early postwar era , the emergence and growth of television techn ology prompted efforts to
develop noncommercial and educational broadcasting in the new medium. Federal support was
largely limited to FCC set -asides of frequency spectrum for noncommercial and educational
broadcasters —first radio, and then television —and limited grants made through federal agency
appropriations .9 In the absence of regular federal funding of public broadcasting during this
period, private philanthropies —and occasionally for -profit broadcasters —provided funding to
support non commercial and educational broadcasting. The Ford Foundation and the Carnegie
Corporation  of New York became major supporters of this enterprise.10
Despite support from these and other sources,  efforts at expanding the reach of noncommercial
and education al radio and television broadcasts often had an experimental and improvisational
character —especially outside urban areas . In early 1960s , one initiative —sponsored in part by the
Ford Foundation and led by Purdue University researchers —deployed  DC-6 airlin ers equipped
7 See Federal Communications Commission  (FCC) , Fourth Annual Report: FY1938 , p. IV, https://docs.fcc.gov/ public/
attachments/ DOC -308653A1.pdf .
8 For example, see Ralph Steetle, “The Changing Status of Educational Television,” The Journal of Educational
Sociology , vol. 32, no. 9 (May 1959), pp. 427 -433 (hereinafter “The Changing Status of Educational Television ”).
9 For description of educational initiatives of this era, see  “The Chang ing Status of Educational Television .” The
National Defense Education Act of 1958 (NDEA;  P.L. 85 -864) authorized  a total of $18 million in appropriations for
research and de velopment of television, radio, and other media for educational purposes . For general information on
frequency spectrum allocation, see CRS Video WVB00471, National Spectrum Policy: Concepts, Issues, and Options
for Congress , by Jill C. Gallagher and Ling Zhu .
10 Philanthropy Roundtable, “Ford and Carnegie Create Public Broadcasting,” https://www.philanthropyroundtable.org/
almanac/ ford-and-carnegie -create -public -broadcasting/  (hereinafter Philanthropy Roundtable) . Ford  Foundation records
show $5.45 million (nominal dollars) in donations for public radio and televis ion since 2006, focusing on content
production, technology, and professional development, with the most recent grant made in 2020. See Ford Foundation ,
Grants Database , https://www.fordfoundation.org/ work/ our-grants/ awarded -grants/ grants -database/ . Carnegie
Corporation of New York records show $7.87 million (nominal  dollars) in donations for public radio and television
since 2004, focusing on content production for education and public affairs programming, with the most recent grant
made in 2024. See Carnegie Corporation of New York , Grants Database , https://www.carnegie.org/ grants/ grants -
database/ .
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   3 with television transmitter s to circle  above sparsely populated areas of the Midwest and broadcast
educational television programs.11
Advocates sought greater federal support for noncommercial and educational broadcasting  to
provide more cons istent financing to improve transmission  technology and programming quality .
Congress enacted the Educational Television Facilities Act of 1962 (ETFA;  P.L. 87 -447) to
support construction and upgrades to educational television facilities  through a system of
matching grants  administered by the then -extant Department of Health , Education, and Welfare .
In signing the bill, President Kennedy framed educational television as a Cold War national
security imperative.12 The law authorized $3 2 million in appropriations over five years —or $3 39
million in April 2025 dollars .13
Other advocates framed public broadcasting as a cultural alternative to the “vast wasteland” of
commercial television, enrich ing civic discourse , public education, and community life.14 In
1965, the Carnegie Corporation  of New York  created the Carnegie Com mission on Educational
Television (the Carnegie Commission) to study the state of noncommercial and educational
broadcasting in the United States and to study best practices from several other countries .
President Lyndon B. Johnson publicly endorsed the ge neral objectives of the Carnegie
Commission  that year .15 The Carnegie Commission released its report, titled “Public Television: A
Program for Action,”  in January 1967 —an event that received national front -page news
coverage .16
The report introduced public broadcasting into the mainstream lexicon, drawing a distinction
between programming to support classroom instruction (educational television) and broadcasting
of noncommercial content for the broader viewing community (public television ). The Carnegie
Commission ’s primary recommendation was  that Congress create  and fund a nonprofit
corporation to support  production of  public television content for local and national audiences.
Other recommendations included  (1) an excise tax on television sales to fund the new nonprofit
public -broadcasting corporation —the Carnegie Commission argued that such a tax would provide
a predictable source of funding not dependent on, or influenced by, the annual appropriations
process —and (2) separate legislation for new authorities and appropriations, which would  allow
the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare  to provide improved broadcasting facilities to
11 Allison Perlman, “Flying Classrooms in the Midwest: The MPATI ’s Experiment in Regional Educational
Television,” in media res , February 28, 2008, https://mediacommons.org/ imr/2008/ 02/28/flying -classrooms -in-the-
midwest -the-mpatis -experiment -in-regional -educational -television#:~: text=
Utilizing%20Stratovision%2C%20a%20broadcast%20distribution%20system%20developed,reached%20schools%20w
ithin%20a%20200%20mile%20radius ; and Carson Benn, The Midwest Program on Airborne Television Instruction
and the Ford Foundation , Rockefeller Archive  Center Research Reports, 2020, https://rockarch.issuelab.org/ resources/
37719/ 37719.pdf .
12 John F. Kennedy, “Statement by the President Upon Signing Bill Providing for Educational T elevision,” The
American Presidency Project , May 1, 1962, https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/ documents/ statement -the-president -
upon -signing -bill-providing -for-educational -television .
13 Calculated using U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index ( CPI) Inflation Calculator,
https://www.bls.gov/ data/ inflation_calculator.htm .
14 See Newton N. Minow, “Television and the Public Interest,” American Rhetoric Online Speech Bank,
https://www.americanrhetoric.com/ speeches/ newtonminow.h tm. Minow delivered the speech on May 9, 1961 , while
serving as  FCC Chairman.
15 Carnegie Commission on Educational Television, “Carnegie I: Members, Preface and Introductory Note, 1967,”
Current , January 26, 1967 , https://current.org/ 1967/ 01/carnegie -i-members -preface -and-introductory -note-1967/ ?
wallit_nosession= 1.
16 Philanthropy Roundtable.
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   4 independent local stations  and support a national interconnection for program distribution and
live broadcasts.17
The Public Broadcasting Act of 1967
The PBA, as amended,  incorporated  several  recommendations of the Carnegie Commissio n,
modified or omitt ed others , and add ed several original provisions . The primary  recommendation
of the Carnegie Commi ssion ’s report —that Congress create a private, nonprofit corporation to
support development of local and national programming  for public television (and later radio) —
was enacted as the law’s core provision . The CPB  was incorporated in 1967 as a private non profit
corporation.
As recommended by the Carnegie Commission, the law prohibited the CPB from operating or
controlling independent local stations . However, the CPB became the primary conduit for federal
support of local broadcasters  and producers and for the buildout of a national interconnection  for
program distribution and live broadcasts .18 Congress elected to fund the CPB through the annual
appropriations process, rather than using a federal excise tax  as recommended by the Carnegie
Commission . Public broadcasting expanded rapidly in geographic reach and availability of
programming for national distribution after enactment of the PBA. According to the CPB, the
national public broadcasting system  reache d 99% of the U.S. population  as of August 2025 .19
In the decades since the PBA’s passage, multiple Congresses and presidential Administrations
sought to make changes to the act and to the public broadcasting enterprise writ large. Issues
addressed by these actions  include
• CPB  authorities for programming decisions and control over  public broadcasters’
access to the interconnection for national program distribution ;20
• balance and objectivity of programming;21
• service to unserved and underserved audiences , especially children and
minorities ;22
17 The original report is not available online but is available in hard  copy format in Library of Congress collections. For
online access to the report summary and recommendations, see “Text of Summary and Recommendations in Report by
the Carnegie Commission,” New York Times , January 26, 1967, p. 27, https://timesmachine.nytimes.com/
timesmachine/ 1967/ 01/26/82578013.html? pageNumber= 27.
18 Congress continued to authorize appropriations for station support and improvements to the public broadcasting
system through the Education Broadcasting Facilities Program , originally established under the Educational Television
Facilities Act of 1962 ( ETFA ); its successor, the Public Telecommunications Facilities Program  (PTFP) , was
authorized under the Public Telecommunications Financing Act of 1978, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §§390-393, 397 -399b ,
and administered by the Department of Commerce until 201 7. The final appropriation  for the program was made in
2010.
19 CPB, “About Public Media,”  accessed August 20, 2025,  https://cpb.org/ aboutpb/ what -public -media#:~:text=
Today%27s%20public%20media%20system%20began,wit h%20free%20programming%20and%20services .
20 The CPB had more direct control over programming when it was originally incorporated in 1967. In 1973, the CPB
agreed to increase grants to independently licensed and operated broadcast stations and give them more  discretion over
programming content to address concerns over political bias of CPB -funded program ming. See Patricia M. Chuh, “The
Fate of Public Broadcasting in the Face of Federal Funding Cuts ,” CommLaw Conspectus , vol.  3, no. 2 (1995) , p. 207,
https://scholarship.law.edu/ cgi/viewcontent.cgi? article= 1048& context= commlaw  (hereinafter Chuh , “The Fate of
Public Broadcasting ”).
21 P.L. 95 -567.
22 P.L. 102 -356.
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   5 • encouragement of creative risk in programming ;23
• the size , composition , and terms of service  of the CPB Board;24
• development of telecommunications technologies ;25
• the formula for allocating CPB appropriations to public broadcasters and
producers of programming content ;26 and
• requirements for public broadcast station financial transparency and public
meetings .27
Structure and Leadership of the CPB
The CPB Board of Directors was organized under Section 396(c) of the PBA  (47 U.S. C. §396(c)) ,
as amended . The law provide s for a board of  nine directors appointed by the President with the
advice and consent of the Senate. By law, directors  are to be U.S. citizens “who are eminent in
such fields as education, cultural and civic affairs, or the arts, including radio and television.” In
addition, the law requires that directors  are geographically representative of different regions,
professionally diverse, and possess “various kinds of t alent and experience appropriate to the
functions and responsibilities of the [CPB].”
Directors  are allowed a  term of six years and may serve up to two terms consecutively. By law,
one director  must represent public television stations, and one director  must represent public radio
stations. No more than five directors  may be affiliated with  a single political party, but the law
otherwise prohibits applying any “political test or qualification” for nominations  or appointments .
According to statute, director s must forfeit their positions for absenteeism , defined as missing
50% or more of meetings in a calendar year. The PBA  provides no other specific guidance on
removal  of directors .
Directors  have typically represented a variety of professional backgrounds i n diverse fields
related to broadcasting, such as public policy, community organizing, entertainment law, and
corporate leadership. The PBA provides the board with authority to name and appoint CPB
corporate officers and to fix terms of compensation. In addition, it mandates several oversight and
facilitation functions.  These include the following:
• “facilitate  the full development of public telecommunicati ons in which programs
of high quality, diversity, creativity, excellence, and innovation, which are
obtained from diverse sources, will be made available to public
telecommunications entities, with strict adherence to objectivity and balance in
all program s or series of programs of a controversial nature” ;
• assist in the development of physical infrastructure to facilitate the widespread
dissemination of public broadcasting content and in the development of public
broadcasting entities;
• ensure freedom of  public broadcasters  from external interference in developing
of programming content and related activities ; and
23 P.L. 102 -356.
24 P.L. 102 -356.
25 P.L. 95 -567.
26 P.L. 95 -567 and P.L. 100 -626.
27 P.L. 95 -567.
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   6 • obtain and disseminate grant funding to public broadcasters for the production
and acquisition of programming, as well as other expenses.28
Thes e legislative authorities and mandates guide d board activities. Meetings include d a public
session and a confidential executive session. Directors  also vote d to accept or approve financial
statements, plans, and other documents . Through the end of FY2025,  the CPB exercise d oversight
of local stations through the Office of the Inspector General, which typically focuse d on ensuring
use of CPB grants within program rules. The CPB Board and its officers d id not manage
program ing decisions  and other routine activities of local broadcast stations, which were
independently licensed and operated .
In April 2025, the White House moved to dismiss three directors  appointed or reappointed by
President Biden .29 The CPB subsequently contested the action in court , claiming that President
Trump did not have authority under the PBA to remove CPB  directors because , among other
factors,  the CPB was a private nonprofit organization.30 Further, the CPB argued that the action
was taken with the intent to prevent the board from meeting quorum requirements to conduc t
CPB business.  The CPB Board had four vacancies at the time of the attempted dismissals, so the
termination of three  members would have left it with two members —a number insufficient to
meet the board’s quorum requirements.
In opposition to the CPB’s request for a temporary restraining order, the defendants argued  that
presidential appointees  to the board were removable at will .31 On June 8, 2025, the court denied
the request for a temporary restr aining order.32 On July 15, 2025, the Trump Administration filed
a lawsuit against the three board members who had refused to leave their posts, claiming that they
had usurped certain presidential authority and were therefore serving unlawfully.  The lawsui t
sought to oust them from office.33 Those board members eventually stepped down as litigation
continued , according to media reports .34 The CPB and the United States  filed joint status report s
in both cases  on January 5, 2026 , which  sought  to have the two lawsuit s dismissed without
prejudice  because  controvers ies that prompted the suits were  mooted by the CPB  Board’s
28 47 U.S.C. §396(g)(1).
29 The directors were Laura G. Ross, Diane Kaplan, and Thomas E. Rothman. Laura G. Ross was originally appointed
to the board of directors by President Trump and confirmed by the Senate in May 2018. She was later reappointed to
the board by President Biden a nd confirmed again in February 2022.  Diane Kaplan was appointed by President Biden
and confirmed in December 2022. Thomas E. Rothman was appointed by President Biden and confirmed in February
2022.  Over the history of the CPB, presidents frequently nominat ed or renominated members who did not belong to
their political party to comply with Public Broadcasting Act  requirements limiting the number of board members from
a single political party.
30 Complaint, CPB v. Trump . As the case was proceeding, on May 15, 2025, the CPB also amended its bylaws to
expressly prohibit removals of directors by the President or other official without a two -thirds vote of other directors
approving the action . See Austin Fuller, “Facing Trump Threat, CPB Amends Bylaws to Protect Di rectors from
Removal,” Current , May 16, 2025; and CPB Board of Directors, By-Laws of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting :
As Amended May 15, 2025 , May 15, 2025, p. 5, https://cpb.org/ sites/ default/ files/ CPB%20BY -
LAWS%20AS%20AMENDED%20MAY%2015%202025%20_0.pdf .
31 Defendants Opposition to Plaintiffs’ Motion for Temporary Restraining Order , CPB v. Trump .
32 Memorandum Opinion and Order, CPB v. Trump .
33 Complaint, United States v. Ross , No. 1:25 -cv-02261  (D.D.C.  2025) , https://storage.courtlisten er.com/ recap/
gov.uscourts.dcd.282676/ gov.uscourts.dcd.282676.1.0_2.pdf .
34 Sulaiman Abdur -Rahman, “Parties Seek Dismissal of Trump Firings Litigation as Public Broadcasting Plaintiffs
Resign,” Law.Com , January 6, 2026, https://www.law.com/ nationallawjournal/ 2026/ 01/06/parties -seek-dismissal -of-
trump -firings -litigation -as-public -broadcasting -plaintiffs -resign/ .
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   7 decision to dissolve itself  and the resignation of the last remaining board member whose ouster
was sought .35 The cases were dismissed on January 14, 202 6.36
Appropriations for the CPB
Until it was defunded by Congress, t he CPB was largely funded by federal appropriations but
sometimes  receive d private donations as well.  In the first several years after creation of the CPB ,
appropriations were made annually.  Beginning with the Public Broadcasting Financing Act of
1975  (P.L. 94 -192), Congress provided two -year advance appropriations to the CPB in order to
separate programming decisions from pressures of the appropriations process and to better allow
for long -term planning of content development.37 For example, the FY2027 advance
appropriation for the CPB of $535 million was made under the Full -Year Continuing
Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2025 ( P.L. 119 -4).38 The Ford White House was also
supportive  of advance appropriations to the CPB,  originally proposing a five-year advance
appropriation. On the basis of  discussions between  congressional leadership and the White
House, Congress shortened this period to two years . Subsequent Congresses continued th e
practice of advance appropriations.39 However,  some Members in recent Congresses called  for an
end to advance appropriations for the CPB .40
Appropriations to the CPB were made  under the jurisdiction of the Labor, Health and Human
Services, Education, and Related Agencies Subcommittees of the House and Senate
Appropriations Committees.41 These subcommittees provide d appropriations under the
Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies
Appropriations Act.  Congress periodically provided separate appropriations for support of the
interconnection infrastructure that enables national distribution of content and live programming
events. For FY202 5, the appropriation for interconnection support was $60 million.42 In addition,
35 Joint Status Report, CPB v. Trump . In dismissing without prejudice, the court did not make a final judgment on the
case that would prevent the plaintiff from refiling the same claims at a later date.
36 For minute orders dismissing these cases, see CPB v. Trump , https://www.courtlistener.com/ docket/ 69966304/
corporation -for-public -broadcasting -v-trump -in-his-official -capacity -as/#minute -entry -450372011 ; and United States v.
Ross , https://www.courtlistener.com/ docket/ 70806414/ united -states -v-ross/ #minute -entry -450413920 .
37 According to the CPB, the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce stated that advance funding
“would go a long way toward eliminating both the risk o f and the appearance of undue interference with and control of
public broadcasting … and will minimize the possibility of any government scrutiny of or influence on programming
that might occur in the course of the usual annual budgetary, authorization, an d appropriation process. ” See CPB,
“Purpose  of CPB’s Advance Appropriations, ” https://cpb.org/ appropriation/ purpose  (hereinafter CPB, “ Purpose of
CPB’s Advance Appropriations ”).
38 This appropriation was subsequently rescinded by the Re scissions Act of 2025 ( P.L. 119 -28), enacted on July 24,
2025 .
39 CPB , “Purpose of CPB’s Advance Appropriations .”
40 For example, see U.S. Congress, House Appropriations Committee, Departments of Labor, Health and Human
Services, Education, and Related Agencies Subcommittee, Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and
Education, and Related Agencies Appropriation s Act, 2025 , report to accompany H.R. 9029 , 118th Cong., 2nd sess.,
H.Rept. 118 -585, July 12, 202 4, p. 254, https://www.congress.gov/ congressional -report/ 118th -congress/ house -report/
585/1?outputFormat= pdf& s=1&r=12.
41 CPB appropriations were originally made under the Department of Health, Education , and Welfare’s Office of
Education. See Chuh , “The Fate of Public Broadcasting ,” p. 210.
42 Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024 ( P.L. 118 -47). Interconnection support appropriations were not
subject to the advance appropriations process.
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   8 Congress provided emergency appropriations to the CPB in response to economic and social
disruptions of the COVID -19 pandemic.43
Other Sources of Federal Support for the CPB
In addition to direct appropriations from Congress , the CPB received  federal grant funds from
other agencies.
Ready to Learn Grants
In recent decades , Ready to Learn (RTL) grants from the Department of Education  have
support ed the development of education al television and digital media targeted at preschool and
early elementary school children.44 RTL grants are awarded on a competitive bas is every five
years. The CPB was awarded grants in previous years to partner with local stations and other
public broad casting entities that produce content for national distribution .45 In the past, RTL
grants helped fund a number of well -known children’s programs, such as Sesame Street, Clifford
the Big Red Dog, and Molly of Denali.46
In the 2020 -2025 grant cycle, the CPB was awarded a total of $112 million in order to develop
“new content that helps young children build vital skills to help them succeed in school and life,
including functional literacy, critical thinking and collaboration —and shows them career options
in age -appropriate ways.”47
On March 20, 2025, the President issued Executive Order (E.O .) 14242 , “Improving Education
Outcomes by Empowering Parents, States, and Communities.” The E.O. directs the Secretary of
Education  to “take all necessary ste ps to facilitate the closure of the Department of Education”
while “ensuring the effective and uninterrupted delivery of services, programs, and benefits on
which Americans rely.”48 On May 1, 2025 , the President issued  E.O. 14290, “Ending Taxpayer
Subsidiz ation of Biased Media,” instructing federal agencies to end funding of certain public
broadcasting activities (see “ The Future Federal Role in Public Broadcasting ” section).  On May
2, 2025, the Department of Education terminated the previously awarded 2020 -2025 RTL grant
and instructed grantees  to stop work  on funded programming activities , according to the CPB .49
43 Congress provided $175 million in fiscal stabilization funds for public broadcasters under the A merican Rescue Plan
Act of 2021  (P.L. 117 -2) and $75 million in fiscal stabilization funds  under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic
Security Act ( P.L. 116 -136).
44 CPB , “CPB and PBS Receive Ready to Learn Grant from the U.S. Department of  Education,” press release,
September 8, 2015, http://www.cpb.org/ pressroom/ release.php? pm=1235 .
45 Anne Brachman, Governmental Affairs, CPB , personal communication with CRS, April 7, 2017.
46 PBS, “CPB and PBS Awarded Ready To Learn Gran t from the U.S. Department of Education,” press release,
September 7, 2020, https://www.pbs.org/ about/ about -pbs/blogs/ news/ cpb-and-pbs-awarded -ready -to-learn -grant -from -
the-us-department -of-education/  (hereinafter CPB RTL press release ).
47 CPB RTL press release ; see also  Julian Wyllie, “CPB Tells Stations to Stop Ready to Learn Grants,” Current , May 6,
2025. RTL grants are awarded for the entire cycle but are disbursed in tranches annually based on appropriations.
48 Executive Order 14242 of March 20, 2025 , “Improving Education Outcomes by Empowering Parents, States, and
Communities ,” 90 Federal Register  13679 , March 20, 2025, https://www.federalregister.gov/ documents/ 2025/ 03/25/
2025 -05213/ improving -education -outcomes -by-empowering -parents -states -and-communities .
49 CPB, “CPB Statement on U.S. Department of Education Terminating Ready to Learn Grant,” pre ss release, May 6,
2025,  https://cpb.org/ pressroom/ CPB -Statement -US-Department -Education -Terminating -Ready -Learn -Grant
(hereinafter CPB, RTL sta tement) .
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   9 As of th e date of  publication  of this report , the statutory authorities for the RTL grant program are
intact  and the Department of Education still exists . The statute defines eligible entities as having
all of the following :
• “A capacity for the development and national dis tribution of educational and
instructional television programming of high quality that is accessible by a large
majority of disadvantaged preschool and elementary school  children.
• “A capacity to contract with the producers of children’s television programm ing
for the purpose of developing educational television programming of high
quality.
• “A capacity, consistent with the entity’s mission and nonprofit nature, to
negotiate such contracts in a manner that returns to the entity an appropriate
share of any anc illary income from sales of any program -related products.
• “A capacity to localize programming and materials to meet specific State  and
local needs and to provide educational outreach at the local level. ”50
Although RTL grants were previously made to the CPB, other public broadcasting entities may be
eligible for grants if Congress were to appropriate funds  to be administered by the Department of
Education or designated successor agency . According to the RTL program website, funds were
not appropriated beyon d FY2024.51
Public Broadcasting Support for Public Alerts and  Warning s
In addition to providing programming for local audiences, public broadcasting stations help
provide public alerts and warnings  during emergencies . The CPB administer ed a competitive
grant program for public television and radio stations to replace and upgrade their broadcast
technologies  to expand alert and warning systems and to create a more resilient public alerting
system. The grant program is funded by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as
part of  the Next Generation Warning System (NGWS)  grant program .52 NGWS is part of an
upgrade within the existing public safety warning system known as the Integrated Public Alert
and Warning System.53 According to the  CPB, Congress made appropriations between FY2022
and FY2025 totaling $136 million to implement  the NGWS Grant P rogram.54
The program was established and funded through the annual appropriations process .
Congressional appropriators set forth priorities for the program in appropriations committee
reports . In the report accompanying a version of a Department of Homeland Security
Appropriations Act, 2023 ( H.R. 8257 ), congressional appropriators stated  that
[t]he first priority of the NGWS program is to help public media entities replace aging
infrastructure that is essential to their role in civil defense and public safety missions. The
50 See 20 U.S.C . §7293(3) .
51 U.S. Department of Education , “Ready to Learn Programming, ” August 18, 2025,  https://www.ed.gov/ grants -and-
programs/ grants -birth -grade -12/early -learning/ ready -learn -programming#funding -and-legislation .
52 U.S. Congress, House Appropriations Committee, Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2022 ,
report to accompany H.R. 4431 , 117th Cong., 1st sess., H.Rept. 117 -87, July 15, 2021, pp. 76 -77 (stating that the
committee expects the Federal Emergency Management Agency [ FEMA ] to work with the CPB to implement the Next
Generation Warning System [ NGWS ] program) .
53 For more information on the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System, see CRS Report R48363, The Integrated
Public Alert and Warning System (IPAWS): Primer and Issues for Congress , by Amanda H. Peskin ; and CRS In Focus
IF12998, The Emergency Alert System: Status of Current Funding for Improvements , by Amanda H. Peskin .
54 CPB, “Next Generation Warning System,” https://cpb.org/ NGWS .
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   10 program also supports these investments by these entities in new technology  needed to
enhance alert, warning, and other public safety communications systems to ensure
resilience, service to underserved populations, and the ability to meet the evolving nature
of public alerting challenges. The Committee expects FEMA to work with the Corporation
for Public Broadcasting to implement this program for public broadcasting entities .55
Appropriations reporting language is not usually legally binding , but federal agencies receiving
the appropriation  may nevertheless follow such language . Under FEMA’s original
implement ation of the program , the CPB was the only eligible applicant and sole recipient of
grant funds  for the FY2022 -FY2024 grant cycles . Under the terms of the grant, the CPB awarded
funds through sub -grants to public broadcast stations  for technology upgrades and for purchase
and distribution of commercial receivers t o individual members of rural and underserved
communities in order to assist them in accessing emergency information.56
In compliance with President  Biden ’s E.O. 13985, “Advancing Racial Equity and Support for
Underserved Communities Through the Federal G overnment ,” issued in January 2021 , FEMA
prioritize d grant awards to  public broadcasting  stations serving minority and underserved
communities .57 President Trump re voked this E.O. on January 20, 2025.58
According to the CPB, “approximately $24.9 million [had] been awarded to 45 organizations in
24 states” as of April 2025.59
On February 18, 2025, FEMA put a hold on further disbursements of grant  awards funded under a
$40 million  appropriation made by Congress in March 2022 .60 This hold temporarily halted work
on NGWS upgrades . The CPB sued FEMA  to restore funding  but later secured the release of
grant funds on April 24, 2025 , through a negotiated agreement with the agency.61 On August 18,
2025, the CPB issued a press release s tating that —because it was defunded by Congress —it
could no longer manage the NGWS Grant Program. It stated that “FEMA should assume
responsibility for disbursing the funds as Congress intended .”62
55 U.S. Congress, House Appropriations Committee, Department of Homeland Security Subcommittee, Department of
Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, 2023 , report to acc ompany H.R. 8257 , 117th Cong., 2nd sess., H.Rept. 117 -396,
July 1, 2022, p. 70 . FY2023 Department of Homeland Security  appropriations were enacted in  H.R. 2617 , which
became  P.L. 117 -328.
56 See FEMA, “Fiscal Year 2024 Next Generation Warning System Grant Program ,” Notice of Funding Opportunity
(NOFO), p. 9, https://www.fema.gov/ sites/ default/files/ documents/ fema_ncp -fy24-ngwsgp -nofo.pdf  (hereinafter
FEMA FY2024 NOFO).
57 See Executive Order 13985  of January 20, 2021 , “Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved
Communities Through the Federal Government, ” 86 Federal Register  7009, January 2 5, 2021 ,
https://www.federalregister.gov/ docume nts/2021/ 01/25/2021 -01753/ advancing -racial -equity -and-support -for-
underserved -communities -through -the-federal -government ; and FEMA  FY2024 NOFO .
58 Executive Order 14148 of January 20, 2025 , “Initial Re scissions of Harmful Executive Orders and Actions ,” 90
Federal Register  8237 , January 2 8, 2025, https://www.whitehouse.gov/ presidential -actions/ 2025/ 01/initial -rescission s-
of-harmful -executive -orders -and-actions/ .
59 CPB, “ CPB Announces Five New Grants Totaling Up to $9.6 Million to Rural Public Broadcasters to Upgrade
Emergency Alerting ,” press release, April 24, 2025, https://cpb.org/ pressroom/ CPB -Announces -Five-New -Grants -
Totaling -96-Million -Rural -Public -Broadcasters -Upgrade  (hereinafter CPB Apr il 2025 press release ).
60 P.L. 117 -103, Division F, Title III. See Julian Wyllie, “FEMA Lifts Hold on Next Generation Warning System
Grants,” Current , April 25, 2025, https://current.org/ 2025/ 04/fema -lifts-hold-on-next-generation -warning -system -
grants/ ?wallit_nosession= 1.
61 CPB April 2025 press release.
62 CPB, “ CPB Defunding Ends Next Generation Warning System Grant Program for Local Public Media Stations ,”
press release, August 18, 2025, https://cpb.org/ pressroom/ CPB -Defunding -Ends -Next -Generation -Warning -System -
Grant -Program -Local -Public -Media .
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   11 Changes to the NGWS Grant Program for FY2025
On August 6,  2025 , FEMA released  a new notice of funding opportunity (NOFO) for the NGWS
Grant Program . The NOFO modifie d the previous purpose and funding structure of the program
as implemented by the Biden Administratio n, which had centered the CPB and public
broadcasting interests  in broad accordance with congressional appropriations committee reporting
language (see the “Public Broadcasting Support for Public Alerts and  Warning s” section) .63 The
2025 NOFO indicated that FEMA would fund a wider array of public and private sector
stakeholders and activities in the emergency alerting field, placing less emphasis on the role of
established broadcasters and upgra des of broadcast station technologies .64 The 2025 NOFO
appears to indicate that FEMA may exclude  participation in the program by organizations that
have diversity, equity, and inclusion practices  and by foreign nationals .65 In contrast with previous
funding opportunity notices, the 2025 NOFO made no mention of public broadcasting stations or
public broadcasting audiences as intended beneficiaries of the grant program.66
The 2025 NOFO made $ 40 million available to fund improvements to emergency alerting
systems  to inform the public during emergencies and protect critical infrastructure . It stated that
FEMA w ould administer the program directly and make a total of five awards —expected to be $8
million each —to state, tribal, or territorial emergency management agencies  (as opposed to the
CPB ).67 According to the NOFO, g rant recipients may spend funds directly or make sub -awards
to eligible subrecipients. The NOFO d id not provide a detailed definit ion of subrecipient
eligibility .
CPB Support for Independent Broadcasters  and
Producers
Congress created the CPB to provide federal support for consistent funding for content
production and distribution that would support a  national public broadcasting enterprise  (see the
“The Public Broadcasting Act of 1967 ” section) . As amended, the PBA provides a formula for
CPB allocation of federal appropriations it receives from Congress. The formula allocates
funding as follows:
• CPB administrative costs  receive 5% of the total allocation .
• System support activities , such as local journalism initiatives, professional
development, interconnection operations, and royalty payments, among others ,
receive 6% of the total allocation .68
63 FEMA, “ Fiscal Year 2025 Next Generation Warning System Grant Program, ” NOFO DHS -25-IPAWS -138-00-99,
August 6, 2025, https://www.fema.gov/ sites/ default/ files/ documents/ fema_gpd_ipaws_fy2025 -ngws -
nofo_08062025.pdf  (hereinafter NGWS FY2025 NOFO) .
64 NGWS FY2025 NOFO, pp. 6 -9. For example, the NOFO lists installation of IPAWS -compatible emergency sirens in
rural and tribal areas as the top program performance criter ion; see pp. 9, 29.
65 NGWS FY2025 NOFO, p. 29.
66 For example, t he FEMA FY2024 NOFO defined eligible subrecipients narrowly as “public broadcast entities” as the
term is defined in 47 U.S.C. §397(11), and identified “underserved public broadcasting audience s” as the intended
beneficiaries of the program . See FEMA FY202 4 NOFO , pp. 6, 11.
67 NGWS  FY2025 NOFO , pp. 6 -7.
68 CPB , “CPB’s Federal Appropriation Request & Justification ,” https://cpb.org/ funding .
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   12 • The remainder —89% of the total federal appropriation to the CPB —is used to
provide grants to public broadcasting stations and program producers that meet
specified eligibility criteria.
• Of th at 89% remainder , 75% is allocated to television grants , and 25% is
allocated to radio grants .
• Funds for television grants are further divided into television station grants and
programming grants —75% and 25% of total public television grant funding ,
respectively.
• For radio, 70% of total public radio funding is allocated to radio station grants.
The remainder of the total is alloc ated between radio programming acquisition
grants (23%) and radio programming grants (7%).
Figure 1 provides a visual representation of the allocation formula .
Figure 1. Allocation of  the CPB’s Federal Appropriation
Source: CRS, adapted from  Corporation for Public Broadcasting  (CPB) , “Appendix C —Formula for Allocating
CPB’s Federal Appropriation,” in Appropriation Request and Justification for FY2023 /FY2025 , March 28, 2022,
https://cpb.org/ sites/default/ files/appropriation/ FY-2023-2025-CPB-Budget -Justification.pdf .
CPB grants were  the largest single source of funding for public television and radio stations and
for programming  development and distribution . Station grants for both radio a nd television were
known as Community Service Grants. On average,  in FY2024 , 10.6% of a public television
station’s revenue  and 6.0% of a public radio station’s revenue c ame from CPB television and
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   13 radio station grants .69 The percentages for rural stations serving smaller audiences over larger
broadcasting regions were  often substantially higher because they generally had fewer alternative
funding streams.70
The CPB took several factors into account in determining grant funding for individual stations,
includ ing rural geography , service to minority audiences , independent fundraising, and  status as
sole media provider in a service area .71 Stations were required to  apply annually for grants  and
meet  transparency requirements for financial reporting and public oversight , among other
requirements . Eligibility rules  for Community Service Grants  strongly favor ed incumbent
licensees that received awards during the previous grant cycle. The predictability of this funding
facilitated stations’ long -term planning and outside fundraising efforts. Programming grants to
stations and independent producers were generally disbursed as competitive awards for specific
public programming activities.
Independent publi c broadcasters could  also receive support from other federal agencies, state and
local governments,  community organizations, educational institutions,  corporations  and other
businesses , philanthropic organizations, and individual donations from viewers and  listeners.
The Public Broadcasting Service  and National
Public Radio
The Public Broadcasting Service ( PBS) was created by the CPB in 1969 to operate and manage a
nationwide program distribution system interconnecting public television stations and to provide
a distribution channel for national programs to those stations. Although PBS does not produce
programs for its members, it aggregates funding for the creation and acquisition of programs by
and for the stations  and distributes programs through its satellite distribution system  to nearly 350
local public television stations.
National Public Radio (NPR)  was created  by the CPB  in 1970 as a news -gathering, production,
and program -distribution company governed by its member public radio stations. NPR has over
1,000 member and affiliate stations, according to the CPB. In contrast with PBS, NPR is
authorized  to produce radio progra ms for its members . It also  provide s, acquire s, and distribute s
radio programming through its satellite program distribution system. NPR Inc., located in
Washington, DC, provides these administrative operations. NPR membership includes access to
certain NP R-produced public affairs programs, but member stations retain control over
programming decisions.72 Two-thirds of all  public radio stations in the United States are NPR
members.73
69 CPB , “CPB Financial Information, ” https://cpb.org/ aboutcpb/ financials .
70 CPB , “CPB Support for Rural Stations, ” https://cpb.org/ aboutpb/ rural .
71 CPB, “CPB Community Service Grants ,” October 28, 2020, https://cpb.org/ sites/ default/ files/
CSG_Fact_Sheet_10.29.20_FINAL.pdf .
72 National Public Radio ( NPR ), “Public Radio Finances,” https://www.npr.org/ about -npr/178660742/ public -radio -
finances .
73 Letter from Patricia de Stacy Harrison, President and CEO  of the CPB , to Sen. Ted Cruz, May 9, 2024 , p. 2,
https://cpb.org/ sites/ default/ files/ CPB%20Response%20Letter%20to%20Sen%20Cruz%205 -09-2024.pdf  (hereinafter
CPB Cruz letter) .
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   14 According to the CPB, PBS is funded mainly by “member stations, distributi on revenue, and
underwriting support.”74 Similarly, NPR is funded mainly “by member stations, distribution
services, underwriting and institutional grants, and individual contributions. ”75 Public
broadcasters were permitted to use  CPB grant funds to pay membership dues to PBS and NPR
and to pay license fees for programming . Therefore, CPB station and programming grants
awarded to independent local broadcasters could  fund PBS and NPR indirectly. Because  public
broadcasting  stations  typically dr ew from multiple revenue sources to  pay membership dues and
program acquisition fees , there are no authoritative estimates of  indirect federal funding levels  of
the PBS and NPR  nonprofit organizations  through dues and fees .76
Both PBS and NPR  receive d some direct federal funding from the CPB. In the case of PBS, the
CPB provide d direct  grant support for certain national content, distribution infrastructure, and
emergency alerting functions (see  the “Public Broadcasting Support for Public Alerts and
Warning ” section). In the case of NPR, the CPB provided “ direct grant support to NPR for its
international reporting bureaus and for the infrastr ucture that distributes content from NPR and
other national public radio producers to every public radio station.”77 Such funding  typically
made  up a small fraction of these organizations’ total revenue.
According to media reports, NPR receive d about 1 % of its funding  for programming and related
activities directly from the federal government each year , while PBS receive d about 16%.78 In a
March 2025  public appearance, Katherine Maher, the president and CEO of NPR , said that direct
federal funding was approximately $11 million annually, with $3 million going to support
international news gathering , and the remainder going to support distribution and emergency
warning infrastructure. NPR’s annual budget is approximate ly $300 million, according to
Maher.79 The PBS budget for FY2025 was $373 million, according to media reports.80
FCC Chairman’s Request for Investigation of PBS and NPR
In January 2025, FCC Chairman Brendan Carr asked the FCC Enforcement Bureau to open an
investigation of PBS and NPR  member stations  for potential violations of federal legal
prohibitions against  commercial advertising by public broadcast stations.81 Member stations
typically run underwriting announcements before programs to recognize sponso rs. These
74 CPB , “FAQ : How Are CPB, PBS, NPR and Local Stations Related?” https://cpb.org/ faq (hereinafter CPB , “FAQ :
How Are CPB, PBS, NPR and Local Stations Related? ”).
75 CPB , “FAQ : How Are CPB, PBS, NPR and Local Stations Related?”
76 See CPB Cruz letter, p. 5 .
77 CPB , “FAQ : How A re CPB, PBS, NPR and Local Stations Related?”
78 David Folkenflik, “Trump ’s FCC Chief Opens Investigation into NPR and PBS,” NPR , January 30, 2025 ,
https://www.npr.org/ 2025/01/30/nx-s1-5281162/ fcc-npr-pbs-investigation .
79 Marta Szpacenkopf , “End of Federal Funds Would Break Fabric of Public National Network, Says NPR ’s CEO,”
Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas  (blog) , April 2, 2025 , https://knightcenter.utexas.edu/ end-of-federal -
funds -would -break -fabric -of-public -national -network -says-nprs-ceo/.
80 Julian Wyllie, “PBS Board Approves $373M Budget, Applauds Contract Extension for CEO Paula Kerger,” Current ,
June 18, 2024, https://current.org/ 2024/ 06/pbs-board -approves -373m -budget -applauds -contract -extension -for-ceo-
paula -kerger/ .
81 Letter from Brendan Carr, FCC Chairman, to Katherine Maher, President and CEO of NPR , and Paula A. Kerger,
President and CEO of  PBS, January 29, 2025,  https://www.capradio.org/ media/ 12276790/ chairman -carr-letter -to-npr-
and-pbs.pdf  (hereinafter Carr letter).
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   15 announcements must adhere to strict criteria prohibiting promotion of goods and services, use of
inducements, or calls to action.82 In a letter to NPR and PBS leadership, Carr wrote
I believe this FCC investigation may prove relevant to an ongoi ng legislative debate. In
particular, Congress is actively considering whether to stop requiring taxpayers to
subsidize NPR and PBS programming. For my own part, I do not see a reason why
Congress should continue sending taxpayer dollars to NPR and PBS giv en the changes in
the media marketplace since the  passage of the Public Broadcasting Act of 1967. To the
extent that these taxpayer dollars are being used to support a for -profit endeavor or an entity
that is airing commercial advertisements, then that wou ld further undermine any case for
continuing to fund NPR and PBS with taxpayer dollars.83
FCC Commissioner Anna M. Gomez, an appointee of President Biden, released a statement
criticizing the investigation request as “yet another Administration effort to w eaponize the power
of the FCC .”84 Additionally, several Members wrote letters to the FCC or issued public statements
criticizing the investigation request.85 PBS and NPR leaders made widely  reported statements that
member stations comply with applicable legal requirements.86
Other Public Media Organizations
Although PBS and NPR have become nearly synonymous with public broadcasting in the United
States, there are multiple other public  organizations that serve the needs of independent , local
broadcasting stations.87 Examples include American Public Television  (APT), which  claims to be
the “leading syndicator of high -quality, top -rated programming to the nation’s public television
stations .”88 In radio, American Public Media  operates a network of 49 public radio statio ns in the
Upper Midwest and California and distributes public radio programming content nationwide.89
Public  broadcasters were permitted to  use CPB programming acquisition grants  to purchase
programming from these and other similar organizations . Since the defunding  of the CPB, public
media organizations have sought to adapt to the changed institutional and funding environment.
82 FCC , “Commission Policy on the Noncommercial Nature of Educational Broadcasting, ” https://www.fcc.gov/ media/
radio/ nature -of-educational -broadcasting .
83 Carr letter.
84 FCC News, “Commissioner Gomez Statement on FCC Investigation into NPR, PBS,” press release, January 30,
2025 , https://docs.fcc.gov/ public/ attachments/ DOC -409227A1.pdf .
85 For exampl e, letter from Sens. Edward J. Markey  et al. , to Brendan Carr, FCC Chairman, February 12, 2025,
https://www.markey.senate.gov/ imo/media/ doc/letter_to_fcc_on_b roadcasters.pdf .
86 For example, Todd Spangler, “PBS, NPR Say They Comply with U.S. Regulations After Trump -Appointed FCC
Chairman Warns They May Be ‘Violating Federal Law’ by Airing Ads,” Variety , January 30, 2025,
https://www.yahoo.com/ news/ pbs-npr-comply -u-regulations -202802382.html .
87 For a list of major organizations, see CPB , “Public Media Organizations, ” https://cpb.org/ stations/ pborganizations .
88 American Public Television , “About, ” https://aptonline.org/ about/ apt. On January 12, 2026, the CPB awarded
American Public Television  a $2.9 million grant from residual funds to “provide finishing funds and editorial support
for station -produced programs with strong potential for broader distribution.” See CPB, “Corporation for Public
Broadcasting Awards $2.9 Million Grant to American P ublic Television to Expand National Distribution of Locally
Produced Content,” press release, January 12, 2026, https://cpb. org/pressroom/ corporation -public -broadcasting -awards -
29-million -grant -american -public -television -expand .
89 Minnesota Public Radio  (MPR) , “Public Radio System Overview : How Are MPR and APM Different from NPR and
PRX?” https://www.mpr.org/ about/ public -radio -system -overview#:~:text=
how%20are%20mpr%20and%20apm%20different%20from%20npr%20and%20prx , and American  Public Media
(APM) , “About Us ,” https://www.americanpublicmedia.org/ about .
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   16 For example, in September 2025 , five public media organizations formed a new nonprofit
coalition with fund ing from a $57.9 million grant that the CPB made from residual funds. The
new nonprofit entity, named Public Media Infrastructure (PMI), announced that it would
lead an urgent effort to innovate radio and digital distribution systems; create new tools
and shared services for revenue generation, data analytics, and audience development; and
build new content delivery services and products designed to enable local stations to remain
vital sources of local news and programming for their communities.90
PMI wo uld take over some national distribution functions for radio programming previously
administered by NPR, which prompted NPR to file a lawsuit against the new organization. Both
parties reached a settlement in November 2025 after the CPB agreed to provide $36 million in
residual funds to NPR to administer its existing distribution infrastructure, according to media
reports.91
The Future Federal Role in Public Broadcasting
After the  Rescission of CPB Appropriations
On May 28, 2025, President Trump transmitte d a special message to Congress requesting
rescission of $9.4 billion in enacted appropriations, including a total of $1.07 billion that it had
previously appropriated to the CPB for FY2026 and FY2027.92 The President invoked Section
1012(a) of the Congres sional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 (ICA; 2 U.S.C.
§683(a)). The act grants the Comptroller General of the Government Accountability Office
(GAO) responsibilities to monitor and enforce through litigation executive branch compliance
with the ICA’s requirements.93
On June 12, 2025, the House of Representatives passed the Rescissions Act of 2025 ( P.L. 119 -28)
by a 214 -212 vote. The act  included all appropriations covered by the President’s special
message. On July 17, 2025, the Senate passed the bill by a 51 -48 vote.
Much of the debate over the future of public broadcasting before the rescission of appropriations
involve d controversy ov er whether it should continue to be treated as a public good and,
therefore, whether  federal support  should continue . Some s upporters of public broadcasting
contend ed that public radio and public television provide d education and news to parts of the
Ameri can population that were underserved by commercial broadcasters .94 They argue d that i n
doing so, public broadcasting  fulfilled the intent of the PB A, as amended, which state d in its
declaration of policy that  public media should address the “needs of unserved and underserved
90 Public Media Infrastructure, “Five Leading Public Media Organizations Unite to Chart Next Era of Innovation and
Infrast ructure For Public Radio,” press release, September 26, 2025, https://publicmedia.tech/ news/ five-leading -public -
media -organizations -unite -to-chart -next-era-of-innovation -and-infrastructure -for-public -radio/ .
91 Benjamin Mullin, “NPR’s C.E.O. Was a Right -Wing Target. Then the Real Trouble Started,” New York Times ,
December 30, 2025, https://www.nytimes.com/ 2025/ 12/30/business /npr-katherine -maher.html .
92 White House, “Message to Congress,” May 28, 2025, pp. 21 -22, https://www.whitehouse.gov/ wp-content/ uploads /
2025/ 03/Proposed -Rescissions -of-Budgetary -Resources.pdf . The George W. Bush Administration requested rescissions
of appropriated CPB funds through its budget requests for FY2006 to FY2010. The proposed rescissions were $10
million from FY2006, $53.5 mi llion from FY2007, $50 million from FY2008, $200 million from FY2009, and $220
million from FY2010.
93 For more information on rescissions, see CRS Report R48432, The Impoundment Control Act of 1974: Backgro und
and Congressional Consideration of Rescissions , by James V. Saturno .
94 Protect My Public Media, “Corporation for Public Broadcasting,” https://protectmypublicmedia.org/ cpb/.
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   17 audiences, particularly children and minorities”  through educational and cultural programming.95
Additionally, advocates in the emergency response community highlighted the role that public
broadcasting play ed in the nati onal emergency alerting system —particularly in areas where
commercial internet and cell service either are not univers ally available  or affordable  or have
been taken offline by natural disasters .96
Critics questioned whether these were  relevant and appropr iate roles for federally  assisted
broadcasting.97 They contend ed that public broadcasting lost much of its early impact as available
media choices expanded  over the last several decades and that , as a result,  the federal role in
public broadcasting needed to be reevaluated. Many question ed the 1967 law that created the
national public broadcasting system and whether the federal government should be in the
“business” of providing general appropriations to the CPB.
For example, i n the 118th Congress, a House report , Concurrent Resolution on the Budget —Fiscal
Year 2025 , included a comment about d iscretionary spending  under the “Education, Training,
Employment, and Social Services ” function that urged a cutoff of federal support for “cultural
agencies.”  It said, in part,
It should not be the responsibility of the Federal Government to provide subsidies for
cultural agencies, such as the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, the National
Endowment for the Arts, and the National Endowment for the Humanities. This budget
resolution recommends such agencies generate financial support from private -sector
patrons.98
Some observers  contend ed that the size and scope of the federal government budget deficit
require d significant cutbacks in many areas. They argue d that federal support for public
broadcasting was no longer necessary, given the increasing predominance of internet -based
technologie s and formats in broadcasting that are broadly accessible to both producers and
consumers of educational media content at a reasonable cost.  Other observers noted that
persistent gaps in internet coverage and affordability —particularly in low -income or rur al areas —
may have limit ed some Americans’ access to these resources.99
Many  critics of public broadcasting —particularly of PBS- and NPR -branded programming —
voiced concerns that  federally  subsidized  public broadcasting was not objective, balanced, or free
of ideological bias. For example, on March 26, 2025, the House Subcommittee on Delivering on
Government Efficiency  held a hearing, Anti-American Airwaves: Holding the Heads of NPR and
PBS Accountable , in which NPR and PBS leaders were called to testify and address allegations of
liberal bias  in public broadcasting .100
95 See 47 U.S.C . §396 (a)(6). For discussion of public broadcasting advocacy issues, see Adam Ragusea, Topple the
Towers: Why Public Radio and Television Stations Should Radically Reorient Toward Digital -First Local News, and
How They Could Do It, Knight Foundation, 2017, https://knightfoundation.org/ public -media -white -paper -2017 -
ragusea .
96 CPB, “Public Media’s Role in Emergency Services ,” August 10, 2020, https://cpb.org/ sites/ default/ files/Emergency -
Alert -Fact-Sheet.pdf .
97 For example, James T. Bennett, The History and Politics of Public Radio: A Comprehensive Analysis of Taxpayer -
Financed U.S. Broadcasting  (Springer, 2021).
98 U.S. Congress, House Committee  on the Budget , Concurrent Resolu tion on the Budget  on the Budget —Fiscal Year
2025 , report to accompany  H.Con.Res. 117 , 118th Cong., 2nd sess., H.Rept. 118 -568, June 27, 2024, p. 40,
https://www.congress.gov/ cong ressional -report/ 118th -congress/ house -report/ 568/1?s=1&r=13.
99 CRS Report R47506, The Persistent Digital Divide: Selected Broadband Deployment Issues and Policy
Considerations , by Colby Leigh Pechto l.
100 House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, “Hearing Wrap Up: DOGE Subcommittee Holds NPR
(continued...)
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   18 Katherine Maher of NPR  defended the organization’s commitment to impartiality in its news and
commentary programming, highlighting several organizational reforms .101 Paula Kerger of PBS
said, “We  are constantly looking to making sure that we  are bringing forward a diversity of
viewpoints and perspectives.”102 Additionally, p ublic broadcastin g advocates sa id that
programming decisions —including whether to carry certain PBS - or NPR -branded content —
were  made by independent local stations, which are subject to public transparency requirements
and may tailor programming to the preferences and need s of local audiences.
The Trump Administration  oppose d federal support of public broadcasting on grounds of political
bias and waste. An April 14, 2025 , White House statement, “The NPR, PBS Grift Has Ripped Us
Off for Too Long,” called for elimination of fundin g, claiming that the organizations  “spread
radical, woke propaganda disguised as ‘news .’”103 During his first term in office, President Trump
propos ed eliminating CPB funding (save for closeout costs) in each of his budget proposal s
submitted to Congress.104 The White House budget for FY2026  propose d canceling $505 million
out of $535 million previously appropriated to t he CPB  for FY2026, leaving $30 m illion for
closeout costs , and would cancel the full advance appropriation of $535 million for FY2027 .105
On May 1, 2025, President Trump issued E.O. 14290 , in which he directed the CPB and all
federal agencies to cease funding for NPR and PBS.106 As justification, the E.O. cited a
contemporary media landscape “filled with abundant, diverse, and innovative news options” and
the alleged political bias of NPR - and PBS -branded current events programming.  The E.O.
speci fied that the restriction applie d to direct funding to the NPR and PBS organizations, as well
as to CPB grant funds that NPR and PBS may indirectly receive from member stations in the
form of membership and programming fees.  It direct ed the CPB to change g rant rul es to prevent
use of grant funds for these purposes.
Patricia Harrison, President and CEO of the CPB, issued a statement challenging the legality of
the E.O. :107
and PBS Executives Accountable for Leftist Propaganda Funded by Taxpayer Dollars,” press release, March 26, 2025 ,
https://oversight.house.gov/ release/ hearing -wrap -up-doge -subcommittee -holds -npr-and-pbs-executives -accountable -
for-leftist -propaganda -funded -by-taxpayer -dollars/ .
101 Cameron Coats, “Maher Defends NPR’s Editorial Independence in DOGE Showdown,” RadioInk , March 27, 2025,
https://radioink.com/ 2025/ 03/27/maher -defends -nprs-editorial -independence -in-doge -showdown/ .
102 Statement made during question -and-answer  period at the hearing.  U.S. Congress, House Committee on Oversight
and Government Reform, Anti-American Airwaves: Holding the Heads of NPR and PBS Accountable , hearings, 119th
Cong., 1st sess., March 26, 2025, H.Hrg. 119 -14, https://www.congress.g ov/event/ 119th -congress/ house -event/
LC74287/ text? q=%7B%22search%22%3A%22Anti -
American+Airwaves%3A+Holding+the+heads+of+NPR+and+PBS+Accountable%22%7D& s=2&r=1.
103 White House, “The NPR, PBS Grift Has Ripped Us Off for Too Long,” press release, Apr il 14, 2025 ,
https://www.whitehouse.gov/ articles/ 2025/ 04/the-npr-pbs-grift-has-ripped -us-off-for-too-long/ .
104 See CPB , “CPB’s Past Appropriations,” https://cpb.org/ appropriation/ history . From FY2002 to FY2011, the Bush
Administration declined to request two -year advance funding for the CPB.  In both the George W. Bush Administration
and the first Trump Administration , Congress continued CPB appropriations in line with amounts previously
appropriated.
105 Office of Management and Budget, Technical Supplement to the 2026 Budget : Appendix , May 30, 2025, p. 1058,
https://www.whitehouse.gov/ wp-content/ uploads /2025/ 05/appendix_fy2026.pdf .
106 Executive Order 14290  of May 1, 2025 , “Ending Taxpayer Subsidization of Biased Media, ” 90 Federal Register
19415, May 7, 2025.
107 CPB, “Corporation for Public Broadcasting Statement Regarding Executive Order on Public Medi a,” press release,
May 2, 2025, https://cpb.org/ pressroom/ Corporation -Public -Broadcasting -Statement -Regarding -Executive -Order -
Publi c-Media .
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   19 CPB is not a federal executive agency subject to the President’s authority. Congress
directly authorized and funded CPB to be a private nonprofit corporation wholly
independent of the federal government. In creating CPB, Congress expressly forbade ‘any
department, agency, officer, or employee of the United States to exercise any direction,
supervision, or control over educational television or radio broadcasting, or over [CPB] or
any of its grantees or contractors .…’ 47 U.S.C. § 398(c).
NPR and PBS  subsequently  filed separate lawsuits against the President and senior
Administration officials . On May 27, 2025 , NPR a long with  three Colorado member stations filed
suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. In the filing, the plaintiffs argued , in
part, that the E.O. violated their right to free speech and was  issued in retaliation for  news
reporting that angered the President . The plaintiffs also argued that  President Trump did not have
the authority to block duly enacted congress ional appropriatio ns to a corporation that Congress
created as a private nonprofit to insulate it from political interference .108 On May 30, 2025,
PBS—joined by a Minnesota member station —filed its own lawsuit, making arguments similar to
those put forth in the NPR lawsuit.109
Options for Congress
For nearly 60 years, the institutional parameters of the public broadcasting enterprise were
defined largely by the relationship between the CPB and the public media organizations it created
(PBS and NPR) , on the one hand, and local public media broadcasters under a variety of
ownership structures , on the other. The re scission of CPB appropriations —followed by cessation
of operations in early 2026 —may substantially alter these parameters. Congress may influence
the scope, character , and extent  of changes , depending on the policy options it chooses to pursue .
Congress may consider four broad  orientations for policy action or —alternately —may choose not
to act, maintain ing the current status  quo. Congress may (1) reest ablish the CPB and provide
appropriations  and policy guidance to the new organization under existing  authorities , (2) provide
appropriations to a reestablished CPB or successor organization under amended authorities , (3)
provide appropriations for certain activities through other existing authorities, or (4) create new
authorities to provide  funding through federal agencies  for support of certain public broadcasting
activities, such as station and programming grants, e mergency alerting, and interconnection
support .
Reestablish and Fund the CPB Under Existing Authorities
The Re scissions Act did not address the PBA , which remains law . If Congress were to appropriate
funds through a future Departments of Labor , Health and  Human Services , Education , and
Related Agencies  appropriations bill , the CPB could resume  operations. The CPB cited Senate
appropriators’  decision not to provide  funding in FY2026 as influencing  its decision to cease
operations and dissolve itself .
108 Complaint for Declarative and Injunctive Relief, NPR  v. Trump , No. 1:25 -cv-01674  (D.D.C. 2025) ,
https://media.npr.org/ documents/ about/ press/
NPR%20Complaint%20for%20Declaratory%20and%20Injunctive%20Relief.pdf .
109 David Baude r, “PBS Suing Trump Administration Over Defunding, Three Days After NPR Filed Similar Case,”
PBS News , May 30, 2025, https://www.pbs.org/ newshour/ nation/ pbs-suing -trump -administration -over-defunding -three -
days-after-npr-filed-similar -case. See Complaint for Declarative and Injunctive Relief, PBS v. Trump , No. 1:25 -cv-
01722  (D.D.C.  2025) , https://www.courtlistener.com/ docket/ 70414813/ 1/public -broadcasting -service -v-donald -j-
trump .
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   20 Should Congress wish to reestablish  the CPB in future years,  it may appropriate funds to do so.
However, given that the CPB will have  ceased operations, several considerations apply. Congress
may need to  include instructions for reestablishing the CPB in a ppropriations reporting language
or authorizing language expressing a “sense of the Senate” or “sense of the House .” Congress
might wish to affirm that it intends for the CPB to operate in accordance with the PBA prior to
enactment of rescissions in 2025.
The PBA provides that members of CPB’s Board of Directors be appointed by the President, by
and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The PBA states that the members of the original
board of directors serve as incorporators  and that the organization must be incorporated as a
nonprofit organization in the District of Columbia . To the extent that this process would apply to
efforts to reestablish the CPB, the process could first require appointment of board members with
Senate advi ce and consent.  Fully reestablishing the CPB could involve acquiring office space,
hiring staff, and performing other start -up activities , meaning that the CPB potentially would not
be able to perform statutory functions immediately upon reestablishment . Congress could
therefore consider an initial appropriation to fund start -up costs before making a full
appropriation to fund grants to public broadcasting entities through the CPB .
The rescission of CPB  appropriations and subsequent dissolution of the CPB may disrupt e xisting
federally supported public broadcasting activities, which involve long -term planning for
programming, infrastructure investments, and station support activities . For those seeking to
maintain public broadcasting as it existed in recent decades , reestablishing the CPB under
existing authorities might have the advantage of mitigating such disruptions —especially if this is
done relatively quickly while much of the public broadcasting enterprise the CPB formerly
supported is still intact.  However, a CPB  reestablished under the existing authorities may face the
same controversies related to  federal support of public broadcasting through a private nonprofit
corporation , and the potential for future rescissions may complicate any effort to reestablish the
CPB as it existed before being defunded  and subsequent ly dissol ved (see “ The Future Federal
Role in Public Broadcasting  After the  Rescission of CPB Appropriations ” section).
Congress may create an alternate funding mechanism separate from the  annual  appropriations
process  to mitigate such potential complications —for example, b y creating  an excise tax on
certain goods and services, as suggested by the Carnegie Commission (see the “ Public
Broadcasting B efore 1967 ” section). Congress cou ld dedicate revenue from the tax to the CPB , if
reestablished,  or other public broadcasting entities.  Alternately, it could use a mechanism similar
to that used to fund C -SPAN, in which commercial cable and satellite television operators
contribute operati ng funds through a designated fee.110 Such mechanisms might provide greater
independence to the CPB and consistent funding to public broadcasting  but would likely reduce
congressional oversight. Additionally, the variability of annual revenue might complicate CPB
planning. Congress may repeal the PBA if it wishes to preclude reestablishment of the CPB under
these or other conditions .
Reestablish a nd Fund the CPB or Successor Organization with
Changes
Congress might consider amendments to the PBA to address  previous disputes over the
independence, objectivity, and balance  of the CPB and the organization’s accountability to elected
110 See “How is C -SPAN funded?” in C-SPAN , “FAQ s,” https://www.c -span.org/ about/ faq/. C-SPAN subsequently
diversified its fundraising through limited advertisements and viewer donations. See C -SPAN , “Our History,”  2026,
https://www.c -span.org/ about/ history .
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   21 leadership.  Some might argue that decisions about programming related to  public affairs, early
childhood education, national history, and other topic s are inherently  value  laden  and, therefore ,
should  reflect the values of the ele ctorate  and the priorities of the nation’s elected leadership  if
they receive  federal  funds .
From this point of view, Congress might seek to make a reconstituted CPB operate more like a
federal agency than a private nonprofit. Congress could grant the CPB  more centralized control
over programming , akin to the authorities it held previously before these were transferred  to
public broadcasting stations in 1973  as a result of perceptions of bias in news coverage  (see “ The
Public Broadcasting Act of 1967 ” section) . Congress may also choose  to fund the CPB with
regular , annual appropriations to ensure greater CPB accountability  to policy preferences  of
congressional majorities  and the White House , rather than reinstituting advance appropriations.
Alternately, Congress could structure the CPB or a successor organization within an existing
federal department or as an independent  federal agency  with a d irector appointed by the President
with the advice and consent of the Senate . The director  could pursue Administration policy
priorities  in public broadcasting subject to statutory guidelines and congressional oversight  as
would be done by any other agency  head . Some, however, m ight perceive such an arrangement to
be inconsistent with  the original intent of the PBA to make federal public broadcasting a shared
national endeavor  insulated from politics and the electoral  process .
Fund Public Broadcasting Thro ugh Other Existing Authorities
Congress may seek to create alternative structure s for support of public broadcasting  stations or
use certain existing authorities . The Public Telecommunications Facilities Program  (PTFP) ,
established under the Public Telecommunications Act of 1992 ( P.L. 102 -356) as the successor to
ETFA, provided funds for facilities construction until  2010, when Congress made its final
appropriation. T he National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
shuttered  the program in 2011 and repealed program regulations in  2017.111 Congress could fund
the PTFP if it chose to make appropriations and provide appropriate guidance for reactivating  the
program  as a vehicle for supporting construction of public broadcasting facilities with federal
funds. Congress  may also wish to continu e funding  the RTL and NGWS programs , which were
not addressed  by the rescissions bill.  In the latter case, the Trum p Administration disregarded
legislative reporting language that directed it to use grant funds to support public broadcasting
entities , reinterpreting  statutory language  to repurpose the funds  (see “ Changes to the NGWS
Grant Program for FY2025 ” section).  Congress may provide guidance to federal agencies on
administration of these programs , including  what portion of program funding —if any —should be
directed to public broadcasting entities , or specify this  in statute . Additionally, it might create new
grant programs to support PMI or other distributors of national programming not linked with the
NPR or PBS organizations (see “Other Public Media  Organizations ” section).
Fund Public Broadcasting Activities Through Appropriations to
Federal Agencies
Congress might assign new authorities  to federal agen cies, such as the Department of Education
or the Department of Commerce , to carry out a public broadcasting enterprise . Congress might
also direct an appropriate federal agency to use designated appropriations to fund broadcast
stations and interconnection s in lieu of CPB support . Additionally, other agencies, such as the
111 Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, “Repeal of Regulations
Governing the Public Telecommunications Facilities Progr am,” 82  Federal Register  43844, September 20, 2017.
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   22 U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Department of Energy, or the Bureau of Indian Affairs, might
provide programming grants or other support relevant to their statutory missions .112
This approach may allow Congress to directly and more narrowly target funding to support local
public broadcasting stations and specific programming activities without an intermediary . The
federal role in public broadcasting may be more  limited or siloed under such a scenario  in which
federal support was realized through multiple issue -specific grant programs administered by
multiple federal agencies. It may also raise concerns regarding the independence of the public
broadcasting enterprise from political control. However, this approach  would retain some federal
involvement in —and support of —public broadcasting .
Take No Further Action  Regarding the CPB  and Public
Broadcasting
The public broadcasting enterprise  has continue d after the dissolution of CPB , although its long -
term prospects are unknown as of th e publication  date of this report . Both NPR and PBS have
released public statements indicating that they plan to continue operations after the CPB shuts
down , albeit with cutbacks .113 At the same time, m any public broadcasting stations have reported
record contributions from  individual viewers and listeners, as well as from corporate
underwriters .114 Some states provide substantial funds to public broadcasting stations and may
continue to do so for the for eseeable future.115 Nonetheless, m any observers have predicted that
broadcast stations located in more remote areas or those that serve economically marginalized
audiences may struggle to keep operating without station grants provided by the CPB.116
In Augu st 2025, PBS announced a 21% cut to its annual budget in response to federal defunding
of public television.117 The President and CEO of NPR said that 78 member stations face
immediate risk to continuing operations  and that roughly half would “have to make significant
adaptations” to stay on the air . However, she voiced optimism  that many of them will adapt to the
changed policy environment and continue to operate.118 Several foundations have undertaken a
112 Prior to 1967, some support for public broadcasting was made through NDEA  appropriations, and the ETFA was
justified in part on defense grounds —see “ Public Broadcasting B efore 1967 ” section.  According to media reports, in
2025 , the White House agreed to provide $9.4 million in grants to tribal public radio stations through the Bureau of
Indian Affairs,  drawing on previously appropriated Department of the Interior funds as a condition for Sen. Mike
Rounds’ support of the Re scission s Act. See Jennifer Shutt, “US Senate Republicans Advance Bill Stripping Funds
from NPR, PBS, Foreign Aid,” News from the States , July 15, 2025, https://www.newsfromthestates.com/ article/ us-
senate -republicans -advance -bill-stripping -funds -npr-pbs-foreign -aid.
113 See NPR, “Statement from Katherine Maher, NPR President & CEO, on Closure of Corporation for Public
Broadcasting,” press release, August 1, 2025, https://www.npr.org/ 2025/ 08/01/g-s1-80660/ statement -from -katherine -
maher -npr-president -ceo-on-closure -of-corporation -for-public -broadcasting ; and PBS, “The CPB Is Closing. We Are
Not,” https://www.pbs.org/ video/ the-cpb-is-closing -we-are-not-fjgeix/ .
114 Scott Nover , “Can NPR Do Without Federal Funding? Its CEO Says She ’s Optimistic,” Washington Post , August 6,
2025, https://www.washingtonpost.com/ business/ 2025/ 08/06/npr-katherine -maher -funding/  (hereinafter Nover , “Can
NPR Do Without Federal Fun ding? ”).
115 “How Much Do Public Broadcasters Receive in State Funding,” Current , 2025, https://current.org/ state-funding -
guide/ .
116 Benjamin Mullin, “The Race to Rescue PBS and NPR Stations,” New York Times , August 19, 2025,
https://www.nytimes.com/ 2025/ 08/19/business/ the-race-to-rescue -pbs-and-npr-stations.html? searchResultPosition= 1
(hereinafter Mullin , “The Race to Rescue PBS and NPR Stations” ).
117 Benjamin Mullin, “PBS Slashes Budget by 21% After Federal Funding Cuts,” New York Times , August 14, 2025,
https://www.nytimes.com/ 2025/ 08/14/business/ pbs-budget -cuts.html .
118 Nover , “Can NPR Do Without Federal Funding? ”
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service   23 coordinated effort to fund vulnerable public broadcast ers, according to media reports.119 Stations
in more heavily populated areas with larger and more affluent audiences may seek new ways to
monetize aspects of their operations formerly performed as a public service while maintaining
their FCC status as nonco mmercial , educational stations .
The Rescission s Act of 2025  and subsequent  closure of the CPB will alter the relationship
between Congress and  the national public broadcasting enterprise. The PBA contains numerous
congressional mandates for CPB stewardship of the federal investment in public broadcasting ,
which were institutionalized over many decades. In exercising its statutory authorities to confirm
presidential nominations to the CPB Board and maintaining  oversight of it, Congress was able to
secure a measure of influence  over public broadcasting writ large . Having defunded the CPB  and
caused its subsequent closure, Congress will not have access to the institutional levers that
provided this influence .
Prior to being defunded, the CPB was required to submit an annual budget request  and
justification to Congress.  The document typically cover ed a wide range of issues of potential
concern to congressional appropriators on the use of federal  funds, such as the effectiveness of
children’s programming in improving educational outcomes, adoption of new media technologies
and formats, programming priorities, cybersecurity measures, and funding of local stations .120
Since 1988, Congress has require d the CPB to maintain an independent inspector general for
oversight of the CPB and CPB -funded entities, including audits of local stations. Public
broadcasters were likewise required to submit annual financial reports to the CPB and conduct
public busines s meetings, which provided a measure of transparency into their operations. Such
transparency may be diminished after the CPB dissolves .
The relationship between public broadcasting entities and the citizenry at  large may also change.
Public broadcasting was supported by Congress as a public good available to every citizen at no
cost. Some states provide funds to support public broadcasting stations under their jurisdiction,
which may serve to perpetuate this miss ion in those states, albeit at perhaps a more modest scale
than with previous federal support . Absent  federal or state  funding, p ublic broadcasters and
content producers may prove less willing to serve  certain minority or underserved rural audiences
if the  costs are deemed prohibitive or if more financially beneficial opportunities exist elsewhere.
Author Information
Brian E. Humphreys
Analyst in Science and Technology Policy
Acknowledgments
Rachael D. Roan (Senior Research Librarian) contributed research to this report.
119 Mullin , “The Race to Rescue PBS and NPR Stations .”
120 For example, see CPB, Corporation for Public Broadcasting Appropriation Request and Justification F Y 2026/FY
2028 , May 30, 2025, https://cpb.org/ sites/ default/ files/ Public -
%20FY%202026%20and%20FY%202028%20Justification%20to%20Labor%2C%20Health%20and%20Human%20S
ervices%2C%20Education%20R elated%20Agencies%20Subcommittee%20%281%29.pdf .
Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress
Congressional Research Service  R48545 · VERSION 16 · UPDATED  24
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan
shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and
under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other
than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in
connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not
subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in
its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or
material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to
copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.