Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Updated February 25, 2026
Congressional Research Service
https://crsreports.congress.gov
RL33003
Congressional Research Service
SUMMARY
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Historically, Egypt has been an important country for U.S. national security interests based on its
geography, demography, and diplomatic posture.  Egypt controls the Suez Canal, which opened in
1869 and is one of the world’s most  critical maritime chokepoints, linking the Mediterranean a nd
Red Seas. Its population of more than 108 million people makes Egypt  by far the most populous
Arabic -speaking country. Its majority Sunni Muslim population and institutions have
transnational influence, and its large Coptic Christian minority is the Mid dle East region’s largest
Christian population.
Egypt’s 1979 peace treaty with Israel stands as one of the most significant diplomatic achievements for the promotion of
Arab -Israeli peace.  During the war in Gaza, Egypt worked with U.S. officials to serve as a mediator between Israel and
Hamas. Egypt was one of several nations which played a key role in mediating the October 2025 ceasefire between Israel and
Hamas. In October 2025, Egypt hosted the Sharm el Sheikh Peace Summit, where President Trump, Presid ent Sisi, and other
world leaders jointly signed a declaration endorsing the ceasefire .
In 2026, Egypt is experiencing a period of relative economic growth and revived regional relevancy as the Trump
Administration looks to Egypt (and others) to help stabi lize Gaza. After several years of economic disruption and a balance
of payments crisis caused by both domestic policies and international events, Egypt’s debt crisis has eased due to outside
economic support from international financial institutions and Ar ab Gulf states. The Egyptian economy, according to the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), is now “showing signs of robust growth”
In addition to Gaza, the Egyptian government is facing other  foreign policy challenges. Egypt has had to contend with a
politically divided Libya on its western border and a civil war in Sudan on its southern border. Conflict in Sudan and tensions
with Ethiopia implicate the Nile River, a core Egyptian national security interest. In addition to insecurity on Egypt’s land
borders, earlier Houthi attacks in the Red Sea  and against Israel  from Yemen redirected commercial shipping away from the
Suez Canal, depriving Egypt of hard currency revenues  for several years.
Since 1946, the Un ited States has provided Egypt with over $90 billion in bilateral foreign aid (calculated in historical
dollars —not adjusted for inflation), with military and economic assistance increasing significantly after 1979. Annual
appropriations legislation includ es several conditions governing the release of these funds. Successive U.S. Administrations
have justified aid to Egypt as an investment in regional stability, built primarily on long -running cooperation with the
Egyptian military and on sustaining the 197 9 Egyptian -Israeli peace treaty. All U.S. military aid to Egypt finances the
procurement of weapons systems and services from U.S. defense contractors.
P.L. 119 -75, the Con solidated Appropriations Act, 2026, provides $1.5 billion in total aid for Egypt, of which $1.375 billion
is for Foreign Military Financing grant aid, an amount $75 million above what Egypt had been receiving as an FMF baseline
for decades. The act  also wo uld withhold $320 million in FMF from obligation unless the Secretary of State can make several
human rights -related determinations, which are no longer delineated in the law’s text, but are now found in the Joint
Explanatory Statement accompanying  P.L. 119 -75. The Secretary of State may waive the withholding provision if the
Secretary determines that “such funds are necessary for counterterrorism, border security, or nonprol iferation programs or
that it is otherwise important to the national security interest of the United States to do so, including a detailed justific ation
for the use of such waiver and the reasons why any of the requirements cannot be met.” For FY2020 -FY202 3, the Biden
Administration and Congress reprogrammed or withheld a total of $750 million in FMF originally designated for Egypt
based on relevant provisions in appropriations law .
RL33003
February 25, 2026
Jeremy M. Sharp
Specialist in Middle
Eastern Affairs
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service  Contents
Overview  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  1
Historical Background  ................................ ................................ ................................ .....................  2
Issues for Congress  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........................  3
Iran ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  3
Israel and Gaza  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........................  4
The Nile River, Ethiopia and the War in Sudan  ................................ ................................ ........  6
Democracy, Human Rights, and Religious Freedom  ................................ ................................  7
Coptic Christians  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......................  8
Terrorism in the Sinai, the Muslim Brotherhood, and U.S. -Egyptian Counter -
Terrorism Cooperation  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  9
Egypt and China  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......................  11
U.S.-Egyptian Relations  ................................ ................................ ................................ .................  11
U.S. Foreign Aid to Egypt  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 12
U.S.-Egyptian Trade & Investment  ................................ ................................ .........................  13
Figures
Figure 1. Map of Egypt  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................  2
Figure 2. Suez Canal Transits by Year  ................................ ................................ .............................  3
Figure 3. President Trump at the Peace Summit in Egypt  ................................ ...............................  4
Figure 4. European Monitors at the Rafah Crossing  ................................ ................................ ....... 6
Figure 5. The Nile River  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  7
Figure 6. U.S. -Egyptian Bilateral Trade: 2016 -2025  ................................ ................................ ..... 14
Tables
Table 1. Democracy, Human Rights, and Development Indicators  ................................ .................  8
Table 2. Recent Major Foreign Military Sales to Egypt Since O ctober 7, 2023  ...........................  13
Contacts
Author Information  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................  14
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   1 Overview
In 2026, Egypt is experiencing a period of relative economic growth  and revived regional
relevancy as the Trump Administration looks to Egypt (and others) to help stabilize  Gaza. A fter
several years of economic disrupti on and a balance of payments crisis  caused by both domestic
policies and international events, Egypt’s debt crisis has eased  due to outside economic support
from international financial institutions and Arab Gulf stat es. The Egypt ian economy , according
to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), is now “showing signs of robust growth ”1 with Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) expected to grow 4.7% in 2026.  Although today its government may
play a smaller political or military role in the Arab world than it has in the past, Egypt may retain
some “soft power” by virtue of its demographic weight, history, media, and culture. Cairo hosts
both the 22 -member Arab League and Al Azhar University, which claims to b e the oldest
continuously operating university in the world and has symbolic importance as a leading source
of Islamic scholarship.
Regionally, Egypt is still surrounded by neighboring states/territories beset by internal strife , with
the civil war in Sud an a particular cause of concern for Egyptian authorities . Some conflict along
its land and sea borders has abated , but conditions in Libya and the Red Sea region remain
tenuous. President Donald Trump’s September 2025 20 -point plan regarding Gaza’s future  and
the ensuing October 2025 ceasefire between Israel and Hamas has presented the Egyptian
government with an opportunity to play a key role in aiding new Gazan governance and security
entities, such as the National Committee for the Administration of Gaz a (NCAG) , the Gazan
Police Force, and the International Security Force  (ISF) . In the Red Sea, attacks by the Houthis in
Yemen against commercial shipping have currently ceased and, while maritime traffic through the
Suez Canal (a key source of revenue for the Egyptian government ) has not returned to pre -
October 2023 levels, it is slowly rebounding.2
Despite these trends, Egypt faces a number of internal and external challenges which will most
likely keep it relegated to playing a more limited role in international  affairs. At home, o ver the
past five years, inflation, multiple currency depreciations, and spiraling budget deficits have all
eroded the purchasing power of the average Egyptian consumer.  As a result, the government will
continue to grapple with how to expend scarce public resources while maintaining an economic
system which depresses private sector investment in favor of military -owned industries.3
Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al Sisi , who is serving his third and constitutionally  proscribed
final term (ends in 2030), originally hails from the military, which, since 1952, has largely served
as the bedrock of the country’s ruling elite. Egypt’s military has long taken an active role in the
nation’s economy, competing with private sector compani es in an array of sectors, such as food
production, construction, mining , and manufacturing.4
Without being able to generate surplus revenue domestically, Egypt will continue to rely on the
largesse of Arab Gulf monarchies, Israel (for natural gas), European institutions, and increasingly,
new partners such as Turkey  (Türkiye)  and the People’s Repu blic of China , for aid, investment,
and hard currency . In return, outside actors  may expect Egypt to side with their  foreign policy
1 IMF, “ IMF Staff Reaches Staff Level Agreement on Egypt’s Fifth and Sixth Review Under the Extended Fund
Facility and First Review Under the Resilience and Sustainability Fund , December 22, 2025.
2 Claire Parker and Heba Farouk Mahfouz , “How Egypt is reviving the Suez Canal after maritime attacks sank traffic,”
Washington Post , January 21, 2 026.
3 Ahmed Aboudouh , “Egypt’s foreign policy will remain too little, too late in 2026,” Chatham House, December 19,
2025.
4 Yezid Sayigh, “ Owners of the Republic: An Anatomy of Egypt’s Military Economy ,” Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace, November 18, 2019.
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   2 priorities, as regional states continue to vie with each other for influence in the Middle East and
the Horn of Africa. Even  with its limited resource s, Egypt will likely continue to prioritize its
longstanding goal of seeking binding , international ly supervised  limits on Ethiopia’s use of its
own Grand Renaissance Dam to restrict flows of the Nile River, which Egypt is depende nt on for
almost all of its freshwater. In sum, Egypt has limited foreign policy maneuverability due to its
extreme dependence on others .
Figure 1. Map of Egypt
Source:  CRS, using ESRI and State Department data and the CIA World Fact book.
Historical Background
Since 1952, when a cabal of Egyptian Army officers known as the Free Officers Movement
ousted the British -backed king,  Egypt’s military has produced four Presidents : Gam al Abdel
Nasser (1954 -1970), Anwar Sadat (1970 -1981), Hosni Mubarak  (1981 -2011), and Abdel Fattah a l
Sisi (2013 -present). These four men have ruled Egypt with strong backing from the country’s
security establishment almost continually.
The one departure f rom Egypt’s decades of military rule took place between 2011 and 2013 .
Popular demonstrations dubbed the “Arab Spring,” which had started in neighboring Tunisia,
spurred  the military to force the resignation of former President Hosni Mubarak in February 20 11.
During this period, Egypt experienced tremendous political tumult, culminating in the one-year
presidency  of M ohamm ed Morsi, who was affiliated with the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood . In
general, the Muslim Brotherhood has been the most significant and a biding opposition during the
decades of military -backed rule.
When Morsi took office on June 30, 2012, after winning Egypt’s first truly competitive
presidential election, his ascension to the presidency was expected  to mark the end of a rocky 16 -
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   3 month tra nsition period .5 Proposed timelines for elections, the constitutional drafting process, and
the military’s relinquishing of power to a civilian government had been  repeatedly  changed,
contested, and sometimes even overruled by the courts.  Instead of consolidating democratic or
civilian rule, Morsi’s rule exposed the deep divisions in Egyptian politics, pitting a broad cross -
section of Egypt’s public and private sectors, the Coptic Church, and the military against the
Brotherhood and its Is lamist supporters.
The atmosphere of mutual distrust, political gridlock, and public dissatisfaction that permeated
Morsi’s presidency provided Egypt’s military, led by then -Defense Minister Sisi, with an
opportunity to reassert political control. On July  3, 2013, following several days of mass public
demonstrations against Morsi’s rule, the military unilaterally dissolved Morsi’s government,
suspended the constitution that had been passed dur ing his rule, and installed an interim president.
The Muslim Bro therhood and its supporters declared the military’s actions a coup d’etat and
protested in the streets. Weeks later, Egypt’s military and national police launched a violent
crackdown against the Muslim Brotherhood, resulting in police and army soldiers fir ing live
ammunition against demonstrators encamped in several public squares and the killing of at least
1,150 demonstrators. The Egyptian military justified these actions by decrying the encampments
as a threat to national security.6
Since 2013, the powe r of President Abdel Fattah al Sisi  has gone mostly unchallenged  amidst a
continuing crackdown  and repression of Islamist and non -Islamist opposition figures.  President
Sisi assumed office formally in June 2014 after winning a May 2014 election with 96% of  the
vote. In 2018, he was reelected for a second term, receiving 97% of all valid votes cast.  In 2023,
Sisi was reelected for a third term, receiving 89.6% of the vote, though critics decried the election
as a foregone conclusion.7
Issues for Congress
Iran
While Egypt does not play a major role in
U.S. Iran policy writ large, granting U.S.
Navy vessels expedited passage through the
Suez Canal is a significant benefit to United
States when it seeks to rapidly deploy military
assets to the Persian Gulf area an d wider
Indian Ocean basin . In early 2026, as
President Trump has sought to deploy
additional naval vessels to the Persian Gulf in
the event of the use of military force against
Iran, several U.S. navy vessels reportedly
passed through the Suez Canal .
Although expedited passage is a benefit to U.S. forces, conflict involving Iran and its proxies
(e.g., the Houthis in Yemen), particularly in the Red Sea, has depress ed Suze Canal maritime
traffic and thereby deprive s the Egyptian government of hard currency f rom Canal transit fees
5 David Kirkpatrick, “ Named Egypt’s Winner, Islamist Makes History ,” New York Times , June 24, 2012.
6 “Egyptian Cabinet Vows to Disperse Pro -Morsi Protest C amps ,” The Guardian  (UK), July 31, 2013.
7 “Egypt ’s Sisi sweeps to third term as president with 89.6% of vote ,” Reuters, December 18, 2023.  Figure 2. Suez Canal Transits by Year
Source: Suez Canal Authority .
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   4 (see Figure 2). The Egyptian government, in conjunction with other Arab states, has been
advocating for de -escalation and diploma cy.
Israel and Gaza
During the war in Gaza, Egypt work ed with
U.S. officials to serve as a mediator between
Israel and Hamas . Egypt was one of several
nations which played a key role in mediating
the October 2025 ceasefire between Israel and
Hamas. In October 2025, Egypt hosted the
Sharm el Sheikh  Peace Summit , where
President Trump, President Sisi, and other
world leaders jointly signed a declaration
endorsing the ceasefire  (see Figure 3).
Between October 2025 and January 2026
(“phase one ” of President Trump’s 20 -point
plan to end the Gaza conflict), Egypt ian
officials, most notably Egypt ’s General
Intelligence chief Hassan Rashad , met with
Israeli leaders, Hamas figures, Palestinian
Authority officials, and other foreign leaders
to resolve various issues, such as the future Palestinian composition of the NCAG, the reopening
of the Rafah border crossing, and the disarming of Hamas.8 Since the January 2026 move to
“phase 2” and the formation of the 15 -member NCAG , Palestinian NCAG officials have been
convening meetings in Cairo . According to one unnamed dip lomat, NCAG officials will not enter
Gaza until they have the “necessary tools to govern the enclave.”9 On January 21, 2026, Egypt
formally accepted President Trump’s invitation to join the Board of Peace .
One of Egypt’s primary roles in assisting Gaza’s transition from Hamas rule to civilian
governance is to train a Gaza police force that can restore law and order in the Strip and oversee
Hamas’ disarmament. The Egyptian government, and other nations, sought international
authorization for such an underta king, which was ultimately codified in United Nations Security
Council Resolution  (UNSCR)  2803 (adopted November 17, 2025). UNSCR 2803 states the
following regarding the ISF:
The ISF shall work with Israel and Egypt, without prejudice to their existing agreements,
along with the newly trained and vetted Palestinian police force, to help secure border
areas; stabilize the security environment in Gaza by ensuring the process of d emilitarizing
the Gaza Strip, including the destruction and prevention of rebuilding of the military, terror,
and offensive infrastructure, as well as the permanent decommissioning of weapons from
non-state armed groups; protect civilians, including humani tarian operations; train and
provide support to the vetted Palestinian police forces; coordinate with relevant States to
8 “Netanyahu, Egyptian intel chief meeting transforms dialogue into strategic cooperation, expert says ,” Jerusalem
Post, October 24, 2025 and “ Mediators said to meet in Cairo to discuss Gaza truce’ s second phase ,” Times of Israel ,
November 25, 2025.
9 “Gaza technocratic panel unlikely to enter Gaza this week, with no date set for start of operations ,” Times of Israel ,
February 10, 2025.  Figure 3. President Trump at the Peace
Summit in Egypt
October 2025
Source: The White House .
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   5 secure humanitarian corridors; and undertake such additional tasks as may be necessary in
support of the Comprehensive Plan.10
Reported ly, some Palestinians from Gaza, including a number who have remained on the PA’s
payroll since Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007, have received police training from Egypt and
Jordan to prepare them to assume roles in preserving law and order in Gaza un der the transitional
government referenced in the U.S. 20 -point plan. Some 7,500 -10,000 vetted Palestinians may
receive police training from Egypt, Jordan, and the European Union.11
As “phase 2” requires the disarmament of Hamas, Egypt and other nations12 may be advocating
for a plan that initially entails Hamas voluntarily relinquishing some of its arms. According to
unnamed officials cited in the media, one draft plan suggests that the Trump Administration is
calling for Hamas to surrender all of its rockets and missiles capable  of striking Israel, but will
allow the group to keep some small arms .13
The Rafah Crossing between Gaza and Egypt
Rafah is a border area historically split between Gaza and Egypt. During the Israel -Hamas war in spring 202 4,
Israel, in order to pressure Hamas and cut off its only non -Israeli border crossing, seized control over the Gazan
side of Rafah, shut down the crossing to passengers , and cut off humanitarian aid deliveries via the Gaza -Egypt
border . For almost two yea rs, the crossing remained closed, and the Rafah crossing’s status became a source of
consternation between the Israeli and Egyptian governments. Israel accused Egypt of turning a blind eye to Hamas ’
underground smuggling tunnels in Rafah , while Egypt accus ed Israel of violating the 1979 Israel -Egypt peace treaty
by stationing military forces along Egypt’s border unilaterally . Israel also accused Egypt of violating the treaty for
deploying additional forces to the Sinai.14
Between 2007 and 2023, when Hamas controlled the Gazan side of Rafah, Egypt used the crossing both as a
source of leverage against Hamas and revenue for military -connected officials, all -the-while taking some steps to
curb smuggling. According to one report, both Hamas and Egypt used to ta x imported goods moving into Gaza
through the Rafah gate, once earning Hamas tens of millions of dollars per year in revenue.15 In addition,
intermediaries with ties to Egyptian intelligence reportedly had sold exit access through Rafah to Palestinians wit h
means for exorbitant prices.16 In the 2007 -2023 time frame, the Egyptian military  took a number of steps to stop
smuggling -tunnel construction beneath the Egyptian -Gaza border. It created a “buffer zone ” along the Gaza border
by demolishing parts of Rafah city  (on the Egyptian side)  and flood ed trenches in the area with seawater from the
Mediterranean. The military also erected concrete walls and barbed -wire fencing along the buffer zone to protect
agains t terrorist attacks emanating from the Sinai .
President Trump’s 20 -point plan mentioned the reopening of the Rafah crossing, and Israel, Egypt, and others
negotiated for several months over the conditions of its reopening. Israel refused to reopen the cro ssing until
Hamas had returned the remains of Israel’s last hostage in Gaza, Ran Gvili (which it did on January 26). In
10 It is unclear whether Resolution 2803 provides a broad mandate for the ISF to use force against Hamas or other
“non -state armed groups” in Gaza under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. See, Samiksha Mukherjee and
Sanmay Moitra, “ An Analysis of Resolutio n 2803 and the International Stabilization Force: A Militarized Enforcement
Mission with Precarious Legal and Strategic Implications ,” Just Security, December 10, 2025.
11 Rina Bassist, “ As phase 2 looms, Netanyahu insists no Turkish or Qatari troops in Gaz a,” Al-Monitor , January 27,
2026; Nava Freiberg, “Egypt and EU stepping up preparations to dispatch Palestinian police force to Gaza,” Times of
Israel , December 2, 2025; Dov Lieber and Summer Said, “ U.S. Pushes a Hamas -Free ‘Green Zone ,’” Wall Street
Journ al, November 21, 2025.
12 Barak Ravid, “ U.S. thinks Hamas is ready to demilitarize as Gaza deal moves to “phase two ,”” Axios.com, January
14, 2026.
13 Adam Rasgon , Natan Odenheimer , and Abu Bakr Bashir , “Hamas Would Keep Some Arms Initially in Draft Gaza
Plan, Officials Say ,” New York Times , February 10, 2026.
14 Khaled Hassan, “Egypt is revising its peace agreement with Israel,” Jewish Chronicle , January 7, 2026.
15 “New Gaza Crossing Raises Questions about Blockade Policies,” PolicyWatch #3205 , The Washington Institute for
Near East Policy, October 23, 2019.
16 “Network linked to Egyptian intelligence sells entry permits to Sinai at exorbitant rates,” Le Monde, Janua ry 26,
2024.
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   6 negotiating over Rafah, Egypt has long feared being inundated with Palestinian refugees; Egypt had rejected
President Trump’s earlier ca lls to relocate Gazans outside the Strip.17 Egypt constructed areas on its side of the
border to contain any uncoordinated mass movements of Palestinians.
Figure 4. European Monitors at the Rafah Crossing
Source:  EUBAM .
On February 2, 2026, the Rafah crossing reopened for a limited number of persons seeking medical care in Egypt
and for those Palestinians who left Gaza during the war to return. Under the terms of the reopening, Palestinian
and European officials operate the crossing, but both Israel and Egypt vet the names of Gazans moving through
Rafah . Israel also has a separate screening system it operates on Gazan territory it controls. Currently, restrictions
in place permit 50 people to return to Gaza each day and 50 me dical patients —with two companions for each —
are allowed to leave . An estimated 20,000 Gazans are seeking medical care outside the Strip.18
The Nile River, Ethiopia and the War in Sudan
Egypt relies on the Nile River (see Figure 5) for hydroelectricity, agriculture, and most of its
domestic water needs, and thus treats restrictions to the flow of the Nile from upstream countries
as an existential issue. The government has been at odds wit h Nile Basin countries to Egypt ’s
south that seek to revisit colonial -era treaties governing the allocation of Nile waters. Tensions are
particularly strong with Ethiopia, which operates the $4.2 billion Grand Ethiopian Renaissance
Dam (GERD), a major hydr oelectric project on the Blue Nile, which starts in Ethiopia. Egypt
argues that the dam will limit the flow of the Nile below Egypt’s share, as agreed upon in a 1959
Egyptian deal with Sudan ( to which Ethiopia was not a party). Ethiopia claims that the dam ,
which would double its electricity generating capacity, is critical to its efforts to eradicate poverty.
After years of failed talks, Egypt, Ethiopia, and Sudan continue to disagree over how much water
should be released from the GERD on an annual basis,  particularly during prolonged droughts.
Reportedly, in order to pressure Ethiopia, Egypt may be militarily supporting the Fano, an
Ethiopian rebel movement.19
17 Sherif Tarek, “Egypt Pushes Against Gaza Displacement Call with Rebuilding Plan,” Bloomberg , February 5, 2025.
18 “Gaza’s Rafah crossing opens after 2 -day closure as Palestinians claim delays and mistreatment ,” Associated Press,
February 8, 2 026.
19 “The promise and peril of Ethiopia’s new mega -dam, ” The Economist , September 9, 2025.
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   7 Since the conflict in Sudan began in 2023,
Egypt has diplomatically  and militarily20
supported the Sudan Armed Forces (SAF, the
military) in its battle against the  paramilitary
Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which has been
backed militarily by one of Egypt’s main
benef actors, the UAE.21 Egypt also is a
member of the “Quad,” a U.S. -led multilateral
mediation effort to end the conflict also
consisting of Saudi Arabia and the UAE . As
the war in Sudan has led to the world ’s largest
humanitarian crisis, the United Nations
estimates that over 3 million Sudanese have
fled to Egypt with 1 million Sudanese hav ing
registered as refugees  in Egypt with the
United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees  (UNHCR). Sudan’s influence over
the Nile River’s flow into Egypt makes it vital
to Egyptian security.
In January 2026, President Trump wrote a
letter to President Sisi, saying , as quoted in
press accounts,  that “ I am ready to restart
U.S. mediation between Egypt and Ethiopia
to responsi bly resolve the question of ‘The
Nile Water Sharing ’ once and for all .”22 During the first Trump Administration, a  U.S.-led
mediation effort stalled in 2020 after Ethiopia rejected a draft agreement put forth by then -
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and a ccused the United States of bias toward Egypt.
Democracy, Human Rights, and Religious Freedom
U.S. officials and some Members of Congress have frequently criticized Egypt’s record on human
rights and democratization. The Egyptian government rejects foreign  criticism of its human rights
practices as illegitimate interference in Egypt’s domestic affairs.23 It also claims that it is taking
tangible steps to improve its human rights record and broaden political participation by launching
a national human rights  strategy,24 forming a Presidential Pardon Commission to release political
prisoners,25 and launching a National Dialogue to allow some open discussion of political issues
by a range of various actors26 (excluding the Muslim Brotherhood which the Egyptian
20 Declan Walsh , Malachy Browne , Eric Schmitt, and Nick Cumming -Bruce , “The Secret Egyptian Air Base Behind
Sudan’s Drone Wa r,” New York Times , February 1, 2026.
21 CRS In Focus IF12816, The War and Humanitarian Crisis in Sudan , by Lauren Ploch Blanchard .
22 “Trump offers to mediate Egypt -Ethiopia dispute on Nile River waters,” Reuters, January 16, 2026.
23 “Egypt calls on US not to interfere in its affairs,” The Middle East Monitor , March 15, 2019.
24 Government of Egypt, State Information Service, Egypt and Human Rights, February 3, 2022.
25 Heba Saleh, “ Critics of Egypt’s regime given rare platform ahead of elections ,” Financial Times  (UK),” June 27,
2023.
26 Vivian Yee, “ Facing Crisis, Egypt’s Leader  Tries New Tack: Talking to Opponents ,” New York Times , June 13,
2023.  Figure 5. The Nile River
Source:  CRS Graphics.
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   8 government designated as a terrorist group in 2013).27 Certain practices of President Sisi’s
government, the parliament, and the security apparatus have been the subjects of U.S. criticism,
including Egypt’s detention and treatment of U.S. citizens. Accord ing to the U.S. State
Department’ s report on human rig hts conditions in Egypt in 202 4
Significant human rights issues included credible reports of: torture or cruel, inhuman, or
degrading treatment or punishment; arbitrary arrest and detention; instances of
transnational repression against individuals in another country; serious restrictions on
freedom of expression and media freedom, including unjustified arrests or prosecutions of
journalists and censorship; significant restrictions on workers’  freedom of association; and
significant presence of some of the worst forms of child labor .28
Select international human rights, democracy, and development monitoring organizations provide
the following global rankings for Egypt  (see Table 1).
T able 1. Democracy, Human Rights , and Development Indicators
Issue  Index  Ranking
Democracy  Freedom House, Freedom in the World 202 5 “Not Free”
Press Freedom  Reporters Without Borders , World Press
Freedom Index 202 5 170/180 Countries
Corruption  Transparency International, C orruption
Perceptions Index 202 5 130/180 Countries
Human
Development  United Nations Human Development
Program me, Human Development Index 202 3 100/193 Countries
Source s: Freedom House, Reporters Without Borders, Transparency International , and United Nations Human
Development Programme.
Coptic Christians
Most Egyptians are Sunni Muslims  (perhaps 90% ).29 A relatively small  percentage  are Coptic
Christians, and this minority has faced discrimination and persecution, from the government as
well as from other citizens and terrorist groups.
For years, the Coptic Christian community in Egypt has called for  equal treatment under the law ,
and members of the community have won several court cases, beginning in 2019 .30 Since taking
office, President Sisi has publicly called for greater Muslim -Christian coexistence and national
unity. In January 20 19, he inaugurated Egypt’s Coptic Cathedral of Nativity  in the New
Administrative C apital east of Cairo saying, “ This is an important moment in our history .... We
are one and we will remain one.”31
Despite these public calls for improved interfaith relations in Egypt, the Coptic Christian
community continues to face professional and social discrimination, along with  occasional
27 “Egypt’s National Political Dialogue agrees on social issues to discuss, voices appreciation for pardons ,” Al Ahram ,
July 30, 2022.
28 U.S. Department of State , 2024 Country Reports on  Human Rights Practices : Egyp t.
29 The World Factbook, last updated August  23, 202 4.
30 See George Sadek, “Egypt: Court Grants Christian Woman Share of Father’s Estate Equal to Share of Her Two
Brothers,” Global Legal Monitor , The Law Library, Library of Congress, January 9, 2020. See also, “Egypt court gives
Coptic woman inheritance equival ent to the man,” Egypt Independent , April 11, 2023.
31 “Egypt’s Sisi Opens Mega -Mosque and Middle East’s Largest Cathedral in New Capital,” Reuters , January 6, 2019.
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   9 sectarian attacks.  According to the 2025 U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom
report, “While Egyptian security services sometimes moved expeditiously to quell violent
incidents against churches, observers criticized authorities’ slow response in other instances,
resulting in property damage ”; the report also noted that “Egypt’s government maintained some
initiatives to recognize and encourage religious inclusivity.”32
Terrorism  in the Sinai, the Muslim Brotherhood, and U.S. -Egyptian
Counter-Terrorism Cooperation
Terrorism in the Sinai . From roughly 2011 until 2023, several terrorist groups based in the Sinai
Peninsula (the Sinai) waged an insurgency against the Egyptian government and committed
terrorist acts against the civilian population there. Of these groups, the Islamic State’s Sinai
Province affiliate (IS -SP), established in 2014, was the most lethal. IS -SP attacked the Egyptian
military repeatedly, targeted Coptic Christian individuals and places of worship, and occasionally
fired rockets into Israel. In October 2015, IS -SP targeted Russian tourists departing the Sinai by
planting a bomb aboard Metrojet Flight 9268, which exploded midair, killing all 224 passengers
and crew aboard. Two years later, in November 2017, IS -SP gunmen launched an attack against
the Al Rawdah mosque in the town of Bir al Abed in north ern Sinai. That attack killed at least 305
people, making it the deadliest terrorist attack in Egypt’s modern history.33 The State Department
designated IS -SP as a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO) in 2014.
For several years, there have been no mass civilian casualty terrorist incidents reported in the
Sinai. Egyptian counterterrorism efforts there appear to have been effective, most notably the
Egyptian Army’s decision to enlist local Sinai tribes to form a local security force called the Sinai
Tribe s Union.34 The Egyptian government also has used non -military means, such as increased
economic development in the Sinai, in an effort to win support among the local population. In
2021, the government inaugurated in northern Sinai the world’s largest agri cultural wastewater
treatment plant, as part of a national initiative to develop the area and optimize the use of water
resources.35
The Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt.  Since its founding in 1928, the Muslim Brotherhood (MB)
has been one of Egypt’s strongest political movements. Its stated purpose is to turn Egypt toward
government based on sharia  (religious) law and Islamic principles. In its nearly century -long
history, the MB has at times used violence against the Egyptian state, and several Egyptian
terror ist organizations have splintered from the main movement.36 Over the years, the Egyptian
government has alternated between tolerating and suppressing the Brotherhood.
Since the military’s 2013 ouster of then -President Mohammed Morsi, the group has been
outlawed in Egypt and its members banned from participation in politics. In late 2013, Egyptian
authorities declared the MB a terrorist organization, effectively criminalizing membership in the
group. Some MB members were already imprisoned, while others fle d the country, primarily to
Turkey, the United Kingdom, and Qatar. In Turkey, MB members established media outlets
critical of President al Sisi; as Egyptian -Turkish relations have improved (beginning around
32 Annual Report of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, March 2025.
33 See archived  CRS Insight IN10827, Egypt: Terrorist Attack in the Sinai Peninsula .
34 Mada Masr , “Meet the newly remade Union of Sinai Tribes, the force taking over the fight in Sinai,” May 24, 2022.
35 Arab  News , “El-Sisi inaugurates world’s largest wastewater treatment plant,” September 28, 2021.
36 Associated Press (AP), “What to know about the Muslim Brotherhood after the US terrorist designation,” January 13,
2025.
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   10 2022 -2023), Egypt has sought Turkish cooperation  in shutting down MB broadcast media in
Turkey.37
U.S. Muslim Brotherhood Terrorist Designation.  For over a decade, some U.S. lawmakers
have sought, through legislation and other means, to sanction the Brotherhood and its supporters,
and some have pressed the executive branch to designate the group as an FTO.38 During the first
Trump Administration, reports suggested that U.S. officials considered doing so.39 In January
2026, several months after President Trump issued an Executive Order ( E.O.) focused on the
Muslim Brotherhood, the Department of the Treasury designated the Egyptian Muslim
Brotherhood (alongside other groups) as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT) under
E.O. 13224 (2001), citing ties to Hamas, a U.S. -designated FTO an d SDGT.40 The Egyptian
government praised the designation, asserting that it “validates” Egypt’s approach to the
Brotherhood.41 Some U.S. state governments also have declared the MB a terrorist organization
under state laws.42 Some h uman rights groups have  asserted in the past that a State Department
designation of the MB as an FTO would “wrongly equate it with violent extremist groups” and
would “threaten the rights to association of Muslim groups in the United States.”43
U.S. Security Cooperation. As disc ussed below , Egypt is a long -standing U.S. regional partner
and one of the largest recipients of annual U.S. military assistance. For decades, military aid
grants have supported Egypt’s purchases of large -scale conventional military equipment from
U.S. sup pliers. Beyond conventional warfighting capabilities, experts have long noted how in
order to effectively combat terrorism, Egypt also needed to invest in “rapid reaction forces
equipped with sophisticated infantry weapons, optics and communication gear .. . backed by
enhanced intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance platforms.”44 The last U.S. Department of
State Country Reports on Terrorism (2023) notes that the United States has provided Egypt with
“counter -IED training, mobile sensor towers, and min e-resistant and ambush -protected vehicles,
as well as training programs on special operations CT, air -to-ground integration, and border
security.”45 The Texas National Guard has a State Partnership Program with Egypt’s military.
Egyptian military units hav e also trained with U.S. Special Forces.46
37 Sinan Ciddi and Mariam Wahba, “A Marri age of Convenience —the Limits of a Turkish Rapprochement With
Egypt,” Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, September 24, 2024.
38 See, e.g., 113th Congress, H.R. 5194 , the Musl im Brotherhood Terrorist Designation Act of 2014.
39 Reuters , “Trump Weighs Labeling Muslim Brotherhood a Terrorist Group,” April 30, 2019.
40 Department of the Treasury, “Treasury and State Departments Designate Muslim Brotherhood Branches as Terrorist
Organizations,” January 13, 2026.
41 Egypt State Information Service, “Egypt welcomes U.S. designation of Muslim Brotherhood as terrorist group,”
January 13, 2026.
42 See, e.g., Office of the Texas Attorney General, “Attorney General Ken Paxton Takes Legal Action in Lawsuit
Involving the Terrorist Organization CAIR,” December 23, 2025.
43 See, e.g., Human Rights Watch, “US: Don’t Target Muslim Brothe rhood,” February 8, 2017.
44 Stratfor , “Egypt’s Conventional Military Thinking,” June 12, 2015.
45 Department of State, “Country Reports on Terrorism 2023: Egypt.”
46 Egyptian Armed Forces, “The conclusion of the activities of the joint Egyptian -American tra ining of special forces
elements in the field of counter -terrorism Training (SOF03) for Paratroopers and Training (SOF06) for Commandos
Forces with US Special Forces,” February 9, 2021.
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   11 Egypt and China
Egyptian -Chinese bilateral relations continue to expand. Commercially, China is Egypt’s largest
trading partner with bilateral trade of $17 billion in 2024.47 In early 2025, Huawei, one of China’s
leading telecommunications companies, signed an agreement with Egypt Telecom to equip
Egypt’s cellular network in anticipation of launch ing 5G services in Egypt .
Egypt and China Conduct Joint Military Exercises
In 2024 and 2025, several reports have indicated the Egyptian government’s interest in purchasing PRC J-10 or J -
35 fighter jets.48 Egypt’s current inventory of fighter aircraft is a mix of American F -16s, Russian Mig -29s, and
French Rafales. In May 2025, Egypt and China conducted “Eagles of Civilization 2025,”49 an 18 -day military exercise
in Egypt featuring PRC refueling tankers, ra dar aircraft, and fighter jets.50 During the first Trump Administration,
Egypt attempted to purchase Su -35 aircraft from Russia, but backed away from the deal after U.S. officials
threatened to levy sanctions using authorities in the Countering America’s A dversaries Through Sanction Act
(CAATSA).51
U.S.-Egyptian Relations
As the most populous Arab state (108 million as of August 2025), Egypt is important to U.S.
policymakers both because of its size and its position astride the Suez Canal. Through mediatio n
by President Jimmy Carter in 1979, Egypt was the first Arab country to reach a peace agreement
with Israel, and though tensions exist, the peace treaty remains intact. Since 1981, U.S.
diplomatic leadership and participation in the Multinational Force an d Observers (MFO) mission
in the Sinai Peninsula has played a key role in facilitating Israeli -Egyptian military coordination.
U.S. troops have served in the Sinai as part of the observation mission, and Congress has annually
appropriated Peacekeeping Oper ations (PKO) funds to support MFO operations since it was
established.
As a key defense partner of U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) forces, U.S. officials have
praised U.S. -Egyptian defense cooperation while seeking a greater Egyptian role in regional
securi ty. In testimony before the House Armed Services Committee  in June 2025 , Katherine
Thompson, the acting  Assistant Defense Secretary for International Security Affairs , testified that
Egypt plays an integral role in advancing U.S. movement in the theater, e xpediting U.S.
forces through the Suez Canal. As part of our efforts to increase burden -sharing with our
regional partners, the Department of Defense is encouraging Egypt to be more active in
addressing instability in its near abroad, particularly Gaza and  the Red Sea. Jordan also
remains a vital partner in promoting security in the Middle East.52
47 Joyce Karam and Rosaleen Carroll, “As Sisi avoids Washington visit, Egypt courts China ’s tech giant Huawei, Al
Monitor, July 3, 2025.
48 Amira El Fekki, “ U.S. Ally Looks to Buy Chinese J -35 Stealth Jets ,” Newsweek , May 29, 2025.
49 “Chinese fighter jets soa r over Egypt in first joint exercises,” Reuters, May 6, 2025.
50 Howard Altman, “China Deploys J -10 Fighters to Egypt,” The War Zone , April 21, 2025.
51 Ali Dizboni, Karim El -Baz, “Understanding the Egyptian Military’s Perspective on the Su -35 Deal,” Fikra F orum ,
The Washington Institute for Near East Policy, July 15, 2021.
52 House Armed Services Committee, “Greater Middle East/Africa Military Posture,” testimony of Katherine
Thompson, performing the duties of the assistant Defense  secretary for international  security affairs , CQ Committee
Testimony, June 10, 2025.
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   12 In 2025, the United States and Egypt conducted the 19th iteration of Operation Bright Star in
Egypt, a multinational military exercise in which 1,500 U.S. soldie rs participated  with military
forces from 40 other nations.53
U.S. Foreign Aid to Egypt
Since 1946, the United States has provided Egypt with over $90 billion in bilateral foreign aid
(calculated in historical dollars —not adjusted for inflation), with military and economic
assistance increasing significantly after the U.S. -brokered 1979 Egyptian -Israeli peace treaty. This
assistance made Egypt one o f the largest recipients of U.S. aid in the world. Annual
appropriations measures have included several conditions governing the release of these funds.
Successive U.S. Administrations have justified aid to Egypt as an investment in regional stability,
built primarily on long -running cooperation with the Egyptian military and on sustaining the 1979
treaty. All U.S. military aid to Egypt finances the procurement of weapons systems and services
from U.S. defense contractors.
P.L. 119 -75, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026 , provides  $1.5 billion in total aid for
Egypt , of which $1.375 billion is for Foreign Military Financing grant aid, an a mount $75 million
above what Egypt had been receiving as an FMF baseline for decades. The act  also would
withhold $320 million in FMF from obligation unless the Secretary of State can make several
human rights -related determinations, which are no longer de lineated in the law’s text, but are now
found in the Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying  P.L. 119 -75. The Secretary of State may
waive the withholding provision if the Secretary determines that “such funds are necessary for
counterterrorism, border security, or nonproliferation programs or that it is otherwise important to
the national security interest of the United States to do so, including a detailed justification fo r the
use of such waiver and the reasons why any of the requirements cannot be met.” For FY2020 -
FY2023 , the Biden Administration and Congress reprogrammed or withheld a total of $750
million in FMF  originally designated for Egypt based on relevant provisio ns in appropriations
law.
Egypt also may receive smaller amounts of security assistance from accounts managed by the
Department of Defense (FMF is managed by the State Department). For example, Section 1225
of P.L. 119 -60, the National Defense Authoriza tion Act for Fiscal Year 2026 , authorizes defense
assistance (from Section 1226 of the FY2016 NDAA) “along the border of Egypt with Sudan.”
President Trump and Congress have exempted aid to Egypt from several executive actions/laws
designed to pause or res cind foreign assistance. For example
• When President Trump ordered a 90 -day pause and review of foreign aid globally
in 2025 , he exempted FMF to Israel and Egypt ;54
• On July 18, 2025, Congress passed  P.L. 119 -28, the Rescissions Act of 2025.
That act  exempted from rescission the unobligated FY2025 Economic Support
Fund (ESF) balances for assistance to Egypt;
53 U.S. Department of Defense, CENTCOM, “U.S. and Egypt Host Exercise Bright Star 25,” Press Release, August 29,
2025.
54 Edward Wong, “ Sweeping Halt to Foreign Aid Does Not Apply to Arms for Israel a nd Egypt ,” New York Times ,
January 25, 2025.
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   13 • On August 29, 2025, President  Trump, citing authority under the Impoundment
Control Act , rescinded certain  funds for foreign assistance and international
organizations, but exempted peacekeeping funds to the MFO.55
Since the Hamas -led attacks of October 7, 2023 and the subsequent Israel -Hamas war in Gaza,
both the Biden and Trump Administrations have noticeabl y accelerated U.S. arms sales to Egypt.
During that time, the State Department has notified Congress of a total of $12 billion in Foreign
Military Sales cases for Egypt (see Table 1 ), which would require over nine years ’ worth of FMF
appropriations at prev ailing annual rates. It is possible that, during the Biden Administration, U.S.
officials reinstated Egypt’s access to cash flow financing, a special benefit for select FMF
recipients, which allows countries to incrementally pay for arms sales over multipl e years.
T able 2. Recent Major Foreign Military Sales to Egypt Since October 7, 2023
Date Notified to
Congress  Major U.S. Defense System  Amount  Principal Contractor
July 24, 2025  National Advanced Surface -to-Air
Missile System  $4.67 billion  RTX Corporation
February 4, 2025  AN/TPS -78 Long Range Radar  $304 million  Northrop Grumman Corporation
February 4, 2025  Fast Missile Craft Modernization  $625 million  Lockheed Martin and L3Harris
December 20, 2024  Hellfire AGM -114R Missiles  $630 million  Lockheed Martin
December 20, 2024  Advanced Precision Kill Weapon
System (APKWS)  $30 million  BAE Systems
December 20, 2024  Abrams Tank Refurbishment  $4.69 billion  General Dynamics Land Systems
September 24, 2024  Stinger Missiles  $740 million  RTX Corporation
January 10, 2024  28-Meter Patrol Craft Kits  $129 million  Swiftships
January 10, 2024  Light Tactical Vehicle Chassis and
Fleet Build  $200 million  AM General, LLC
Totals  $12.018 billion
Source: Defense Security Cooperation Agency.
U.S.-Egyptian Trade  & Investment
Egypt is the top export market for U.S. goods and services in Africa . In 2025, the total volume of
bilateral trade stood at $11.2 billion , a noticeable leap from previous years (see Figure 6).
Leading U.S. exports to Egypt include agricultural goods, oil and gas, transportation equipment,
chemicals, machinery, and computer and electronic products.56 According to the U.S. Department
of Agriculture, in 2024, Egypt was the 21st largest market for  U.S. food and agricultural product
exports, led by soybeans.57
55 The White House, “ Historic Pocket Rescission Package Eliminates Woke, Weaponized, and Wasteful Spending ,”
August 29, 2025.
56 U.S. Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration, Country Commercial Guide, Egypt, November
11, 2025.
57 U.S. Department of Agriculture, Foreign Agricultural Service, Egypt: Exporter Guide Annual , December 31, 2025.
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service   14 Figure 6. U.S.-Egyptian Bilateral Trade: 2016 -2025
$s in millions
Source: U.S. Census Bureau
Since 2004, Egypt has participated in the Qualified Industrial Zone (QI Z) program, a trade
arrangement that provides duty -free access to the U.S. market for goods produced with certain
levels of Israeli and Jordanian; Israeli and Egyptian; or Palestinian content. Under the U.S. -Egypt
QIZ program, the United States waives duti es on Egyptian imports if the value of the imports
includes  at least 10.5% Israel i content and 11.7% Egypt ian content.58
The United States  is the third largest foreign investor in Egypt (behind the UK and Belgium) with
most investments concentrated in the oil and gas sector.  In November 2025, the U.S. Export -
Import Bank approved a  $4 billion credit -insurance guarantee for Egypt to secure gas deliveries
from U.S. -based Hartree Partners.
Author Information
Jeremy M. Sharp
Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs
58 See https://www.trade.gov/ qiz-egypt .
Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations
Congressional Research Service  RL33003  · VERSION 128 · UPDATED  15
Disclaimer
This document was  prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan
shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and
under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other
than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in
connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not
subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in
its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or
material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to
copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.