https://crsreports.congress.gov Updated March 4, 2026 The Philippines Overview and Recent Developments The United States and the Republic of the Philippines maintain a relationship that include s a bilateral security alliance, extensive military cooperation, close people -to- people ties , and many shared strategic and economic interests . The United States administered the Philippines as a colonial territory (1898 -1946) after 300 years of Spanish rule. Over 4 million people in the United States identify as Filipino alone or in combination , and the U.S. Dep artment of Veterans Affairs operates its only office outside of the United States in Manila, serving thousands of veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces. The United States is the Philippines’ third -largest trading partner, after China and Japan, and its largest export market. The Philippines has long played an important role in U.S. Asia policy as a securit y and counterterrorism partner. The 1951 Mutual Defense Treaty (MDT) commits the two coun tries to help defend each other against external armed attack . Tensions between the Philippines and the People’s Republic of China (PRC or China ) over maritime claims in the South China Sea are a potential flashpoint . Trump Administration officials have reaffirmed the “ironclad” U.S. commitment to the Philippines , including by support ing the Philippines’ military modernization, deploying advanced missile systems in combined exercises, and initiating a new bilateral task force to deter PRC c oercion in the South China Sea . As part of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2026 (P.L. 119 -60), Congress authorized up to $2.5 billion in Foreign Military Financing (FMF ) and up to $1 billion in loans for military sales for the Philippines . In July 2025 , Philippine President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr. visited the United States, meeting with President Donald Trump and the U.S. secretaries of defense and state. In addition to reaffirming the importance of the alliance, the two sides announced that the United States would provide over $60 million in new foreign assistance to support energy, maritime, and economic growth programs. In September 2025, the United States announced $250 million in foreign assistance to the Philippines to improve health systems, disease detection and response, and maternal and child health services. Congress has provided oversight, policy direction, and funding to shape U.S. ties with th e Philippines, which is located in the “first island chain” in the Pacific and could play a key role in a regional conflict. Members also have sought to shape U.S. policy on human rights and counter - terrorism in the Philippines, as well as security coopera tion related to the South China Sea and other contingencies . Philippines Politics In 2022, Filipinos elected Marcos Jr. as president and Sara Duterte -Carpio as vice president. Marcos’s father , Ferdinand Marcos Sr., ruled the country from 1965 to 1986, including through martial law from 1972 until he was ousted by the 1986 People Power Revolution. Sara Duterte is the daughter of former President Rodrigo Duterte (in office 2016