roles . • Congress may consider changes to the RC duty status system, such as those proposed in an August 2025 RAND Corporation report and the Duty Status Reform Act (H.R. 6976 ). • Congress may consider the role of the reserve components (and the Armed Forces in general) in domestic security activities . • Congress may assess the RC’s operational and personnel temp o (OPTEMPO and PERSTEMPO) in both federal and state mobilizations and the potential impact on servicemember wellbeing and readiness. • Congress may consider whether RC pay and benefits are adequate to meet recruiting and retention targets . Relevant Statutes Title 10, U.S. Code , Subtitle E (Reserve Components) Title 32, U.S. Code (National Guard) CRS Products CRS Report RL30802, Reserve Component Personnel Issues: Questions and Answers CRS Report R43808, Army Active Component (AC)/Reserve Component (RC) Force Mix: Considerations and Options for Congress Nicholas M. Munves , Analyst in U.S. Defense Policy Carly A. Miller , Senior Research Librarian Ebrima M'Bai , U.S. Army Fellow IF10540 Defense Primer: Reserve Forces https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF10540 · VERSION 24 · UPDATED Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.