on new treatment targets, novel and repurposed med ications, vaccines and other immunotherapies, drug -drug combinations, and approaches to counteract opioid -related overdose. For FY2026 , Congress appropriated $4 million for CDMRP -funded research on “alcohol and substance abuse disorders .” DOD may also use other research funds appropriated to other accounts (e.g., Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency or the military departments) to conduct s ubstance use disorder research . Considerations for Congress Congress may pursue several lines of inquiry in considering problematic substance use in the military and support congressional oversight of DOD programs and initiatives to prevent substan ce use and misuse. • Section 724 of P.L. 118 -31 require d DOD to provide an annual report (for five years after enactment) to the House and Senate armed services committees on the number of annual overdoses (including demographic and utilization data ) among members of the Air Force, Army, Marine Corps, Navy, and Space Force. Do these reports adequately support congressional ov ersight efforts on problematic substance use in the military? • In 2020 and 2024 , the DOD Inspector General identified MTF staffing shortages as a contributor, among other factors, to beneficiary challenges with accessing mental health care. How has DOD addressed these staffing shortages? • The UCMJ and DOD poli cy mandate disciplinary actions, including separation from military service, for servicemembers who knowingly misuse certain substances. Should the military services offer servicemembers more or less opportunities to obtain treatment prior to initiating di sciplinary action? • What mental health or care coordination services , if any, does DOD offer to servicemembers –and those transitioning to civilian life –with problematic substance use? Quadre Nichols , Defense Health Fell ow Bryce H. P. Mendez , Specialist in Defense Health Care Policy Problematic Substance Use in the Military: Prevention, Treatment, and Research Efforts https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF10951 · VERSION 5 · UPDATED IF10951 Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.