by traditional reservists : members of the Selected Reserve who are usually required to work one weekend a month and two weeks a year. However, many r eserve units are also staffed by one or more full -time civilian and/or military employees. These employees, known as full -time support (FTS) personnel, are “assigned to organize; administer; instruct; recruit and train; maintain supplies, equipment , and ai rcraft; and perform other functions required on a daily basis in the execution of operational missions and readiness preparation .” (DOD Instruction 1205 .18) Activations There are four statutory provisions by which members of the National Guard and Reserve can be involuntarily ordered to federal active duty for a year or more. These are commonly referred to as Full Mobilization (10 U.S.C. §12301(a) ), Partial Mobilization (10 U.S.C. §12302 ), and Presidential Reserve Call -up (10 U.S.C. §12304 ), and activation in support of pre -planned missions for the Combatant Commands (10 U.S.C. §12304b ). These provisions differ from each other in terms of the statutory requirements for utilization, the number and category of reservists authorized for call up, and the duration of the c all up. Another authority added in 2011, provides for involuntarily activating members of the Army Reserve, Navy Reserve, Marine Corps Reserve, and Air Force Reserve to respond to major disasters or emergencies, for periods of up to 120 days ( 10 U.S.C. §12304a ). In addition to activations under federal authority, members of the National Guard can also be activated by their governor s for full -time duty (i.e., state active duty ) owing to their unique sta te/federal status. They can also be activated under state control but with pay and benefits provided by the federal government. This is sometimes referred to as Title 32 status in reference to the part of the United States Code that governs this duty status. Pay, Benefits, and Duty Status Reservists’ pay and benef its may vary significantly based on the type of duty performed. Some key variables in determining the compensation provided include (1) whether an individual is performing active duty or inactive duty; (2) if on active duty, the statutory authority under w hich the individual is activated, the duration of the duty, and whether the duty performed is in support of a contingency operation; and (3) for the National Guard, whether the duty is in a state status or federal status. Issue s for Congress • Congress may c onsider whether the reserves ’ structure, resourcing, doctrines , and legislative authorities enable them to fulfil both operational and strategic roles . Congress might also consider how the balance of capabilities between the RC and the active component underpins those roles . • Congress may consider changes to the RC duty status system, such as those proposed in an August 2025 RAND Corporation report and the Duty Status Reform Act (H.R. 6976 ). • Congress may consider the role of the reserve components (and the Armed Forces in general) in