Dysplasia Prader -Willi Syndrome Food Allergies Proteomics Fragile X Pulmonary Fibrosis Frontotemporal Degeneration Respiratory Health Gambling Addiction Rett Syndrome Hepatitis B Sarcoidosis Hereditary and Acquired A taxias Scleroderma Hermansky -Pudlack Syndrome Sickle Cell Disease Hydrocephalus Sleep Disorders Hypoxia Spinal Muscular Atrophy Hypertropic Dyschromia Suicide Prevention Inflammatory Bowel Disease Tuberculosis Interstitial Cystitis Von Hippel -Lindau Disease Accelerated Aging Processes Associated with Military Service Infertility Associated with Military Aviators/Aviation Personnel Brain Injury Impact on Cardiac Health Myalgic Encephalomyelitis / Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy Orthotics and Prosthetics Outcomes Hereditary Hemorrhagic Telangiectasia Pediatric Acute -Onset Neuropsychiatric Syndrome (PANS) & Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorder Associated with Streptococcus (PANDAS ) Source: Explanatory Statement (p. H1571) accompanying the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026 ( P.L. 119 -75). Bryce H. P. Mendez , Specialist in Defense Health Care Policy IF10349 Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs Funding for FY2026 https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF10349 · VERSION 19 · UPDATED Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.