https://crsreports.congress.gov Updated March 4, 2026 Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program s Funding for FY2026 Members of Congress are frequently lobbied to add funding to annual defense appropriation legislation for certain medical research programs on a wide variety of diseases and topics. In addressing annual appropriations bills, Members frequently seek information on enacted levels for such funding under the Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs (CDMRP). CDMRP Administration and Funding The CDMRP is a Department of Defense (DOD) , which is “using a secondary Department of War designation” under Executive Order 14347 dated September 5, 2025, program that receives congressional appropriations explicitly for biomedical research in specific, congressionally identified health matters. As such, it has not been part of the President’s budget request for DOD. The U.S. Army Medical Research and Development Command (USAMRDC) , with oversight from the Defense Health Agency, administers the CDMRP and is responsible for awarding and managing competitive grants. Congress typically inserts CDMRP fundi ng as Undistributed Medical Research in the Defense Health Program’s Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation (DHP RDT&E) account in the annual DOD appropriation. Congressional documents accompanying the annual defense appropriation act (i.e., conferenc e report or explanatory statement) typically identify the specific research areas for a given fiscal year. Division A, Title VI, of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026 (P.L. 119 -75), inserted $ 1.27 billion into the RDT&E account for CDMRP. This amount comprises 51% of the overall DHP RDT&E , as reflected in Figure 1. Biomedical research conducted by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency or other military research agencies is not included in this account. Table 1 lists the FY202 6 CDMRP funding amounts for specific medical research areas. CDMRP Funding Requests Members may request funding for medical research during the annual defense appropriat ions process. The appropriations committees typically send Members a memorandum with instructions for submitting requests. Both House and Senate committee reports may specify funding associated with certain research. An exchange of amendments between the h ouses (or a conference committee) typically resolves any differences between the committee reports. The medical research programs funded under the CDMRP are not static. Funding may be provided for conditions not funded in previous years. For example, fundi ng for tick -borne disease research was provided in FY2016 -FY2020, but no associated funds were provided in FY2015. Figure 1. Total DHP RDT&E Appropriation, FY202 6 Source: CRS analysis of Division A, Title VI, of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026 ( P.L. 119 -75). Program Announcements and Awards USAMRDC issues periodic program announcements to alert researchers of CDMRP grant opportunities. The program announcements include detailed descriptions of funding mechanisms, evaluation criteria, submission requirements, and deadlines. Program announcemen ts are listed on the Grants.gov website . The CDMRP website (https://cdmrp.health.mil ) also lists program announcements, information on awarded grants and other resources such a s related publications, brochures about individual research programs, and annual reports. Peer Reviewed Cancer Research Program Peer Reviewed Cancer Research Program (PRCRP) funding supports grants for medical research on