control at all times, the other 53 National Guards operate as state or territorial organizations most of the time. In this capacity, each of these organizations is identified by its stat e or territorial name (e.g., the California National Guard or the Puerto Rico National Guard) and is controlled by its respective governor. National Guard units and personnel can be ordered into federal service. When this happens , control of the affected u nits and personnel passes from the state governor to the President of the United States. Reserve Categories Ready Reserve The Ready Reserve is the primary manpower pool of the reserve components. Members of the Ready Reserve are typically called to active duty before members of the Standby Reserve or the Retired Reserve. The Ready Reserve is made up of three subcomponents: The Selected Reserve contains those units and individuals within the Ready Reserve designated as “ so essential to initial wartime missions that they have pr iority over all other Reserves .” (see Table 1). Table 1. Selected Reserve Personnel Strength Reserve Component Selected Reserve Army National Guard 328,870 Army Reserve 169,519 Navy Reserve 58,165 Marine Corps Reserve 33,071 Air National Guard 105,120 Air Force Reserve 65,465 Total 760,210 Source : Department of Defense, Defense Manpower Data Center, Selected Reserve Personnel by Reserve Component and Rank/Grade , September 2025. Notes : These figures reflect the number of personnel in each of the reserve components as of September 30, 2025 . Members of the Selected Reserve are generally required to perform one weekend of training each month and two weeks of training each year , although some may train more Defense Primer: Reserve Forces https://crsreports.congress.gov than this. When reservists are activated, they most frequently come from this category . The Individual Ready Reserve (IRR) is a manpower pool of individuals who have already received military training, either in the Active Com ponent or in the Selected Reserve. They are not normally required to perform training , but can be ordered to active duty under certain circumstances. The Inactive National Guard (ING) is , for practical purposes, the National Guard equivalent of the IRR . There is currently no ING for the Air National Guard. Standby Reserve The Standby Reserve contains those individuals who have a temporary disability or hardship and those who hold ke y positions in their civilian jobs. They are not required to participate in military training and may only be ordered to active duty in limited circumstances . Retired Reserve The Retired Reserve includes Reserve personnel who are qualified for reserve retirement. Members of the Retired Reserve may be ordered to active duty only in limited circumstances . Full-Time Support Reserve units are primarily filled by traditional reservists : members of the Selected Reserve who are usually required to work one weekend a month and two weeks a year. However, many r eserve units are also staffed by one or more full -time civilian and/or military employees. These employees, known as full -time support (FTS)