https://crsreports.congress.gov Updated March 5, 2026 U.S.-Indonesia Relations Overview With over 2 80 million citizens , Indonesia is the most populous country in Southeast Asia , the world’s most populous Muslim -majority nat ion, and the world’s third - largest democracy (after India and the United States). It has the world’s 16th-largest economy —the 7th-largest when ranke d by purchasing power parity. The country straddles vital sea lanes and borders the Strait of Malacca, one of the world’s busiest trade routes, as well as the Indian Ocean and the South China Sea. Over the past 25 years , Indonesia has become a robust democracy, holding f ive direct presidential elections, each considered by international observers to have been largely free and fair . In the most recent, held in February 2024 , Prabowo Subianto , a former defense minister who served as commander of the Indonesian military’s special forces in the 1990s, was elected to succeed President Joko Widodo . Prabowo took office in October 2024 and is to s erve a five -year term. The U.S.-Indonesia relationship has broadened over the past two decades , with closer military and counterterrorism cooperation and a range of new educational, environmental, and energy programs . Congress has played a key role in guiding the relationship, including by restricting interactions with security services accused of rights abuses, promoting cooperation on issues such as maritime security and counterterrorism, and conducting oversight of assistance programs and Indonesia’s Millennium Challenge Compact , signed in 2023 . (Some of the aid is in flux given the Trump Adminis tration’s elimination of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) .) Indonesia’s foreign policy is guided by its historical role as a leader of the Non -Aligned Movement, and successive Indonesian governments have resisted aligning too closely with the United States or other s, including the People ’s Republic of China (PRC , or China ). Indonesia is an active member in regional diplomatic institutions including the G - 20 and Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) . Some 87% of Indonesians are Muslim, with the vast majority subscribing to moderate , syncretic forms of Sunni Islam . Religio us diversity is enshrined in the constitution. Some observers express concern about growing political influence of conservative religious groups . Non -Sunni Muslims and other religious minorities have been targets of violence, and some conservative groups have organized mass demonstrations against non -Muslim politicians. Indonesia also has a history of violent extremis m: several bombings in Jakarta and Bali target ed Westerners in the early 2000s, an d smaller -scale attack s have occurred periodically . Political Background On February 14, 2024, over 200 million Indonesians voted in presidential, parliamentary, and local e lections —the world’s largest one -day democratic exercise —and select ed Prabowo , the ex -son-in-law of the country’s former authoritarian President Suharto, as president . Prabowo is a former general who was removed from the military in 1998 for allegedly tort uring political activists and who was