president and Sara Duterte -Carpio as vice president. Marcos’s father , Ferdinand Marcos Sr., ruled the country from 1965 to 1986, including through martial law from 1972 until he was ousted by the 1986 People Power Revolution. Sara Duterte is the daughter of former President Rodrigo Duterte (in office 2016 -2022). The Philippine constitution limits both the president and vice president, w ho are elected on separate tickets, to one six -year term . The Philippines held midterm elections in May 2025 , in which Marcos -aligned candidates fared poorly compared to pre -election polling . Prior to the election, in March 2025, Rodrigo Duterte was extradited to the International Criminal Court to face charges of crimes against humanity for his anti -drug war ; he was formally charged in September . The U.S. -Philippines Alliance The MDT undergirds security cooperation between the two countries, and the Philippines generally has been a staunch supporter of an active U.S. presence in the region . In 1992 —in the face of vocal Philippine opposition to U.S. military bases and during a period of relative peace and stability following the fall of the Soviet Unio n—the U.S. military withdrew from the two bases it had operated since the Philippine -American War (1899 -1902 ). In 1998, the two countries signed a Visiting Forces Agreement. In 2014, with increasing tensions in the South China Sea, the U.S. and Philippine governments signed an Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA ), allow ing the rotational presence of U.S. military forces, aircraft , and ships at five locations in the Philippines ; in February 2023, t he two countries agreed to increase the number of Ph ilippine military bases open to U.S. forces to nine. Figure 1. The Philippines at a Glance In May 2023 , the two allies established new Bilateral Defense Guidelines , which aim to help modernize Philippine defense capabilities, deepen interoperability, enhance bilateral planning and information -sharing, and combat transnational and nonconventional threats . The guidelines appear to reinforce treaty obligations, stating that The Philippines https://crsreports.congress.gov an armed attack “anywhere in the South China Sea,” on either par ty’s “armed forces —which includes both nations’ Coast Guards —aircraft, or public vessels, would invoke mutual defense commitments” under the MDT. The Philippines has been one of the largest recipient s of U.S. military assistance in the East Asia -Pacific re gion, including FMF and assistance under the Department of Defense’s (DOD’s) Indo -Pacific Maritime Security Initiative. U.S. military and Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) personnel conduct regular joint military exercises and maritime patrols, collabo rate on counterterrorism, and carry out humanitarian activities. In 2025, over 1 4,000 primarily U.S. and AFP soldiers participated in the Balikatan annual bilateral exercise in the Philippines. Small contingents of Australian and Japanese troops also joined. The exercises included the deployment of the Navy -Marine Expeditionary Ship Interdiction System (NMESIS) in the Luzon Strait near Taiwan. The Philippines has announced its intention to purchase a U.S. Typhon missile system,