claiming the tribunal had no legal standing in the case. Human Rights Concer ns Human rights challenges in the Philippines include extrajudicial killings carried out by the military and police , lack of protections for press freedom and the safety of journalists, a weak ju dicial system, and corruption. The State Department , in a 2023 report updated pursuant to t he Consolidated Appropriations Act, FY2023 ( P.L. 117 -328, Section 7019(e)) , indicated the AFP “has made progress on human rights,” although “some AFP personnel, particularly those acting outside the chain of command, commit human rights abuses and violations.” Observers also have noted ongoing restrictions and harassment of journalists . As a consequence of former President Duterte’s war on illegal drugs —which resulted in an estimated 6,000 -30,000 extrajudicial killings —Congress suspended counternarcotics assistance to the Philippines in 2016, except for demand reduction, maritime law enfo rcement, or transnational interdiction . Some h uman rights groups allege that extra judicial killings related to anti -drug operations have continued under Marcos, though at a lesser rate . Separatist and Terrorist Movements The Philippines government has lo ng battled Muslim armed separatist and terrorist groups on the southern island of Mindanao and in the Sulu archipelago . The U.S. military has provided noncombat support for counterterrorism efforts in the southern Philippines since 2002 , including against the Abu Sayyaf Group, which the United States designated a foreign terrorist organization (FTO) in 1997 . In 2018, the State Department added ISIS -Philippines (renamed ISIS -East Asia in 2020 ) to the FTO list . The AFP has restricted terrorist groups’ ability to operate, though various groups remain an ongoing, if diminished, threat. Congressional Interests Some Members of the 118th and 1 19th Congress es have introduced bills intended to support the U.S.-Philippine alliance, Philippine security, and bilateral ties, including the United States -Philippines Partnership Act of 2024 (S. 4703 ), Filipino Veterans Fairness Act of 202 5 (H.R. 6013 ), and Filipino Veterans Family Reunification Act of 202 5 (H.R. 1053 ; S. 461 ). Congress approved National Security Investment Programs funding and FMF in FY2026 Department of State appropriations legislation (Division F of P.L. 119 -75), and an increase for the Philippines within the Defense Security Cooperation Agency’s International Security Cooperation Programs in FY2026 Department of Defense appropriations (Division A of P.L. 119 -75). William Piekos , Analyst in Foreign Affairs Ben Dolven , Specialist in Asian Affairs The Philippines https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF10250 · VERSION 69 · UPDATED IF10250 Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government,