Conduct r egular and systematic medical screening for at - risk problematic substance use and gambling disorder s • Provide evidence -based substance use disorder service s to eligible servicemembers • Return servicemembers to full duty following substance use disorder treatment, if feasible • Separate servicemembers who knowingly misuse drugs Source s: CRS analysis of DOD Instruction 1010.01, “ Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program ,” 2025; DOD Instruction 1010.04, “ Problematic Substance Use and Gambling Disorder ,” 2025 ; and DOD Instruction 1010.16 , “Technical Procedures for the Military Personnel Drug Abuse Testing Program ,” 2025 . Prevention Efforts DOD policy mandates that servicemembers receive annual training and information on the “prevention, identification, and awareness of problematic substance use and gambling disorder risks to health, and military readiness.” Each military service operates a n integrated primary prevention program that provide s a range of education and training services for servicemembers, health care provi ders, and unit commanders. Prevention efforts also include the anonymous Drug Take Back program at “all military pharmacies in [the] United States ,” active health surveillance for at -risk servicemembers, prescription drug monitoring program , naloxone distribution program , and annual screenings for problematic substance use behavior s. Treatment Options Servicemembers may receive treatment for substance use disorders at certain military treatment facil ities ( MTFs ) or through civilian health care providers participating in TRICARE. Federal statute (10 U.S.C. §1079(a)(12) ) authorizes TRICARE to cover services or supplies unless determined “not medically or psychologically necessary.” These services may include inpatient care, intensive outpatient programs, office -based outpatient treatment , partial hospitalization programs, and residential programs. Evaluation and treatment for substance use or misuse can be self -initiated, or referred by a supervisor, co -worker, or family member. To reduce stigma when servicemembers voluntarily access mental health care and substance misuse treatment , DOD policy authorizes MTF health care providers to notify a member’s supervisor only when consent is provided or under a limited set of “exigent circumstances ” (e.g., risks of self-harm, harm to others, or harm to mission ; designated personnel, inpatient admission/di scharge ; command -directed evaluation ; or other special circumstances). Medical Research Efforts DOD has conduct ed medical research on the clinical aspects of substance use or misuse , its impact on mi litary readiness, and its comorbidity with other health issues (e.g., post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury ). Congress has funded m any of these research efforts through the Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program s (CDMRP). Between FY2014 and FY2025, Congress appropriat ed a total of $40 million to DOD for “alcohol and substance abuse disorders” research under the CDMRP . These r esearch projects have typically focused on new treatment targets, novel and repurposed med ications, vaccines and other immunotherapies, drug -drug combinations, and approaches to counteract opioid -related overdose. For FY2026 , Congress appropriated $4 million for CDMRP -funded research on “alcohol and substance abuse disorders .” DOD may also use other research funds appropriated to