and t he U.S. -Taiwan Tax Agreement Authorization Act. It aims to avoid double taxation and encourage Taiwan investment in the United States . It would amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 by pro viding special rules for the taxation of certain Taiwan residents with income from sources in the United State s. It would authorize the President to negotiate a tax agreement with Taiwan and require a Senate vote on an agreement . U.S. Tariffs and Investment. In January 2026 , the United States and Taiwan reach ed a deal for a 15% U.S. tariff rate on Taiwan , reduc ing a 32% tariff that President Trump imposed in 2025 under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA, 50 U.S.C. §§1701 et seq) . The 2025 action and the 2026 deal both except electronics, semiconductors, and good s subject to Section 232 actions. On February 20, 2026 , the Supreme Court ruled that the President cannot use IEEPA to impose tariffs . In response, President Trump imposed a 1 0% global tariff for 150 days under Section 122 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. § 2132) . Taiwan officials have said that, despite U.S. tariff policy changes, they would like to keep the deal. The deal exempt s generic drugs, aircraft parts, and certain natural resources from the 15% IEEPA tariff. It caps at 15% Section 232 tariff s on auto parts, timber, lumber, and wood derivative products . It create s duty-free and lower -tariff - rate quotas for semiconductor imports for firms that invest in U.S. capacity. Taiwan is to cut some tariffs on U.S. goods and cooperate on export controls , investment, infrastructure, and supply chain security. Taiwan also is to invest $ 250 billion in the U.S. semiconductor sector ; provide $250 billion in credit guarantees to support other U.S. investment ; and establish U.S. industrial parks. Since 2020, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd. (TSMC) has invested in three fabrication plants in Arizona. In 2025, it committed to invest an additional $100 billion . Free Trade Agreement (FTA) . Some Members say they support a comprehensive FTA with Taiwan . An FTA could lower Taiwan’s barriers to U.S. agriculture and services, increase Taiwan’s investment in the United States, and encourage countries to pursue similar deals with T aiwan. Taiwan has signed FTAs with New Zealand and Singapore and an investment deal with Canada. Its efforts to seek trade deals with the European Union, Australia, Japan, and the United Kingdom prompted the PRC to exert pressure on those countries . In 2021, Beijing imposed a n embargo on Lithuania for enhancing Taiwan ties. In 2021, Taiwan and the PRC applied to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans -Pacific Partnership ; Beijing has pressed countries not to admit Taiwan. Trade Negotiations . Congress enacted P.L. 118 -13, which bars the executive branch from negotia ting trade deals without congress ional consent . The law assert s congressional ex -post approval of the