Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans -Pacific Partnership ; Beijing has pressed countries not to admit Taiwan. Trade Negotiations . Congress enacted P.L. 118 -13, which bars the executive branch from negotia ting trade deals without congress ional consent . The law assert s congressional ex -post approval of the May 2023 trade agreement with Taiwan , sets conditions for its entry into force, and require s consulta tion for future agreements . Energy. Taiwan’s transition away from nuclear power and reliance on imported LNG with li mited stockpiling capacity may leave it vulnerable to supply disruptions, such as a PRC blockade . S. 2722 would promote U.S. LNG exports to Taiwan and the develop ment of LNG storage in Taiwan . Export Controls . U.S. export control actions since 2020 restrict any firm that use s U.S. technology from making certain chips for some PRC firms . Many PRC firms are not restricted , however, and some have reportedly used proxies to work around controls and make chips at TSMC: In 2021, Pythium procured chips for China’s hypersonic missile program; in 2024, Huawei procured its 910 Ascend chips. Karen M. Sutter , Specialist in Asian Trade and Finance U.S.-Taiwan Trade and Economic Relations https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF10256 · VERSION 35 · UPDATED IF10256 Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.