the Balikatan annual bilateral exercise in the Philippines. Small contingents of Australian and Japanese troops also joined. The exercises included the deployment of the Navy -Marine Expeditionary Ship Interdiction System (NMESIS) in the Luzon Strait near Taiwan. The Philippines has announced its intention to purchase a U.S. Typhon missile system, spurring China to warn t hat the Philippines is sparking a regional “arms race.” The Marcos administration has strengthened security relations with U.S. allies and partners, including Australia, France, Germany, Japan, New Zealand, Vietnam , and India . In April 2024, a U.S.-Japan -Philippines summit was held in Washington, DC, to promote trilateral cooperation in multiple areas, including security, infrastructure investment in the Philippines, and joint technology development. The Philippines signed a reciprocal access agreement with Japan in July 2024 and a status of visiting forces agreement with New Zealand in April 2025 . South China Sea Tensions between the Philippines and China in the South China Sea have risen over the past two decades, particularly since 2012 when the PRC seized de facto control of a disputed reef known as Scarborough Shoal . China has enlarg ed disputed features in the Spratly archipelago , including within the Philippines’ claimed exclusive economic zone (which the Philippines refers to as the West Philippine Sea) , placed military assets on these features, and interfered with Philippine commercial and military activity. Since 2019, PRC vessels have regularly congregated near Philippine -occupied land features and harassed Philippine fishing , coast guard , and other vessels. Since 2023, China Coast Guard and maritime militia vessels have escalated their interference with Philippine boats attempting to conduct resupply missions to Second Thomas Shoal in the Spratly Islands chain. The Philippines posts a cadre of marines on a now -derelict Philippine Navy ship, the BRP Sierra Madre , which it grounded on the shoal in 1999. After several incidents during attempts to resupply the Sierra Madre , in July 2024, the two sides agreed to deescalate tensions around Second Thomas Shoal and allow for the vessel’s resupply . In 2025, tensions around Scarborough Shoal resulted in a collision between two PRC vessels that were harassing a Philippine Coast Guard ( PCG ) ship. In 2013, t he Philippine government sought arbitration under the Unite d Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) against aspects of China’s claims and behavior in the South China Sea. In 2016, an UNCLOS tribunal concluded, among other findings, that China’s maritime claims based on “historical rights” have no basis in international law , and that China had violated Philippine rights in the South China Sea . China did not participate in the proceedings and declared the verdict “null and void ,” claiming the tribunal had no legal standing in the case. Human Rights Concer ns Human rights challenges in the Philippines include extrajudicial killings carried out by the military and police , lack of protections for press freedom and the safety of journalists, a weak ju dicial system, and corruption. The