https://crsreports.congress.gov Updated March 4, 2026 Problematic Substance Use in the Military: Prevention , Treatment , and Research Efforts In 1982, Congress enacted requirements for the Department of Defense (DOD) , whic h is “using a secondary Department of War designation,” under Executive Order 14347 dated September 5, 2025, to “identify , treat, and rehabilitate members of the armed forces who are dependent o n drugs or alcohol. ” (10 U.S.C. §1090 ). Since then, Congress ha s held a sustained interest in understanding federal efforts and identifying options to address substance use and misuse, particularly among servicemembers . The Uniform Code of Military Justice (10 U.S.C. §912a ) and DOD polic y generally prohibit the possession, distribution, sale, or use of certain substances and the misuse of certain substances . In light of this prohibition, DOD operates programs focused on prevention, treatment, and research to address il licit drug use and misuse of alcohol, prescription drugs , and other substances . In April 2025, the Trump Administration published its Statement of Drug Policy Priorities , which outlines federal priorities and objectives to address “illicit drug use that plagues our Nation” and ac knowledges “the complexity of substance use disorder and addiction .” These priorities , among others, seek to “Reduce the Number of Overdose Fatalities, with a Focus on Fentanyl,” “Prevent Drug Use Before It Starts,” “Provide Treatment That Leads to Long - Term Recovery,” and “Innovat e in Research and Data to Support Drug Control Strategies.” Terminology Problematic substance use. A DOD term that refers to “the use of any substance in a manner that puts the user at risk of failing in their responsibilities to mission or family and that is considered unlawful by regulation, policy or law.” (DOD Instruction 1010.04 ) Substance misuse. “A pattern of substance use marked by recurrent significant social, occupational, legal, or interpersonal adverse consequences.” (DOD Instruction 1010.04 ) Substance use disorder . “A cluster of physiol ogical, behavioral, and cognitive symptoms associated with the continued use of substances despite substance -related problems, distress, and/or impairment, such as impaired control and risky use.” ( American Psychological Association ) Problematic Substance Use Trends in the Military According to the 2018 DOD Health -Related Behaviors Survey , 1.3% of active duty servicemembers reported the use of any illicit drugs (marijuana, synthetic cannabis or stimulants, inhalants to get high, or other illegal drugs) in the past year. Servicemembers also reported the following substance use behaviors wit hin the past year: misusing prescription drugs (1.4%), using nonprescription cough or cold medicine to get high (0.4%), and using nonprescription anabolic steroids (0.2%). In addition, servicemembers reported binge drinking (34.0%) and heavy drinking (9.9% ) in the past month. The overall annual rates for new diagnoses (i.e., incidence rates) of alcohol or substance abuse disorders among active duty servicemembers have decreased from 2007 through 2024 (see Figure 1). The incidence rate for alcohol -related disorders decreased from 1,663 per 100,000 person -years in 2007 to 1,088 per 100,000 in