annual Super Garuda Shield, hosted by Indonesia, which included over 6,000 troops from 13 nations in 202 5. This represents a sharp change from the late 1990s and early 2000s, when U.S. policies enacted in response to earlier human rights abuses by Indonesian forces severely limited bilateral engagements . In 1999, Congress suspended all International Military Education and Training (IMET) programs with Indonesia after its military , particularly the Kopas sus special forces —headed at the time by Prabowo — and militia proxies killed over 1,000 people in Timor -Leste following Timor ’s vote to pursue inde pendence from Indonesia. Programs were restarted on a limited basis in 2002 and , from 2005 to 2010, the United States largely normalized mil itary relations . Indonesia is increasingly involved in South China Sea tensions. Indonesian authorities periodically confront or warn off PRC fishing and law -enforcement vessels seen as encroaching on Indonesian waters. PRC coast guard vessels reportedly have harassed Indonesian energy exploration vessels in the South China Sea more frequently and have accompanied fleets of PRC fishing vessels into Indonesia’s exclusive economic zone ( EEZ). In April 2025, Prabowo broke from lo ng-standing Indonesian policy by proposing joint development projects with the PRC in disputed areas. Economic Issues Over the past two decades, Indonesia’s economy has frequently posted growth of more than 5%-6% annually, buoyed in part by favorable demographics (66% of its population is of working age). The country is a large producer of natural gas and oil, as well as critical minerals including nickel. It is a major supplier of natural resources to Japan, Sout h Korea, and China, and is the world’s leading exporter of palm oil. Indonesia is the 24th-largest U.S. trading partner, ranking below neighbors such as Singapore, Vietnam, Malaysia, and Thailand. In 2025, bilateral goods trade totaled $45.8 billion and t he bilateral goods trade deficit was $23.7 billion. Indonesia has imposed some policies criticized by foreign investors, including foreign ownership restrictions and local content requirements in some industries. In February 2026, the United States and Ind onesia signed an Agreement on Reciprocal Trade, under which Indonesia eliminated tariffs on nearly all imports from the United States and agreed to remove some nontariff barriers, and the United States cut tariff rates on Indonesian goods to 19%. Militancy and Terrorism Indonesia has had a long -running issue of domestic militancy, including religious and separatist movements . In 2018, Indonesia amended its 2003 Anti -Terrorism Law , lengthening periods for which suspects can be detained without charge and bro adening police rights to prosecute those who join or recruit for militant groups . U.S.-Indonesia counterterrorism cooperation is close; the United States and Australia helped to create Indonesia’s elite counterterrorism unit, Densus -88, which has weakened militant groups such as Jemaah Islamiyah (JI), an Al Qaeda affiliate responsible for several bombings in the 2000s . The threat of terrorism in Indonesia remains present but many analysts argue that is has been diminished in the past decade. Human