Indonesia’s elite counterterrorism unit, Densus -88, which has weakened militant groups such as Jemaah Islamiyah (JI), an Al Qaeda affiliate responsible for several bombings in the 2000s . The threat of terrorism in Indonesia remains present but many analysts argue that is has been diminished in the past decade. Human Rights Is sues Most observers say Indonesia ’s human rights protections have improved over the past 20 years , as the country’s democratic system has developed and a relatively robust civil society, including an active press, has flourished . Abuses still occur, including some by members of the military . Alleged abuses are particularly frequent in areas with simmering secess ionist movements such as Papua. Islamist organizations have harassed and attacked minority religious groups, including Christians and other Is lamic sects, such as the Shia and A hmadiyya . In 2016, large demonstrations by Islamist groups opposed to Jakarta’s Christian governor raised concern s for many about religious intolerance. The State Departm ent’s 202 5 Trafficking in Persons report listed Ind onesia as a Tier 2 nation and reported it “does not fully meet the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking but is makin g significant efforts to do so. ” Environmental Issues The United States has conduct ed numerous environmental and clean -energy programs in Indonesia, which is among the world’s most bio diverse countries . In 2022, the United States, Japan, and Indonesia announced a Just E nergy Transition Partnership (JETP), aimed at accelerating private investment in sustainable energy. In March 2025, however, the Trump Administration withdrew U.S. participation in the partnership. Indonesia has made some progress on issues such as defores tation, but it s record of environmental protection is constrained by weak rule of law and poor land management. Because of deforestation, Indonesia is a major emitter of greenhouse ga ses—the world’s third - or fourth - largest when emissions from deforestatio n are considered . Illegal logging remains rampant. In the 1960s, forests covered 82% of Indonesia ; today, they cover 49%. Analysts also cite overfishing as a concern. Ben Dolven , Specialist in Asian Affairs IF10247 U.S.-Indonesia Relations https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF10247 · VERSION 58 · UPDATED Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you