local e lections —the world’s largest one -day democratic exercise —and select ed Prabowo , the ex -son-in-law of the country’s former authoritarian President Suharto, as president . Prabowo is a former general who was removed from the military in 1998 for allegedly tort uring political activists and who was implicated in 1999 violence in Timor -Leste (East Timor) . A scion of a wealthy Indonesian family who spent much of his youth overseas , Prabowo campaigned on promises to continue Widodo’s economic policies, including prioritizing growth in underdeveloped regions and promoting the mining and processing of critical minerals important to clean -energy supply chains . He chose Jokowi’s eldest son, Gibran Rakabuming Raka, as his vice president , and announced a cabinet that included members of nearly every political party in Parliament. As president, Prabowo has implemented a range of controversial initiatives , some of which have spurred criticism of his administration . His government’s proposal to cut government subsidies fo r schools led to large street protests in early 2025. Some foreign policy observers criticized him for proposals that appeared to acknowledge Chin a’s claims in the South China Sea for the first time. Prabowo has also acted to strengthen relations with the United States. Indonesia joined the Trump Administration’s Board of Peace, and has offered to mediate in the intensifying Middle East conflict. Figure 1. Indonesia U.S. Engagement with Indonesia Previous U.S. Administrations have engage d Indonesia across a wide range of issues, encouraging Indonesians to deepen their democratic institutions, promote religious tolerance and the rule of law, develop a more liberal trade U.S.-Indonesia Relations https://crsreports.congress.gov and investment climate, combat terrorism , and engage on international issues such as maritime security and climate change . In 20 23, the United States and Indonesia upgraded their bilateral “Strategic Partnership ” to a “Comprehensive Strategic Partnership,” continuing minister -level dialogue s intended to address maritime cooperation, defense cooperation, economic growth and development, energy cooperation, cooperation on global and regional issues, and people -to-people ties. Most U.S. assistance has support ed health, environmental, and educational initiatives , although the status of individual programs is uncertain given the Trump Administration’s cuts to foreign assistance . Indones ia is part of the Indo -Pacific Maritime Security Initiative , which aims to strengthen Naval and Coast Guard capabilities in the Indo -Pacific . In 2022, the two countries finalized several agreements, including a $698 million MCC Compact supporting climate -conscious infrastructure developmen t. Security Cooperation U.S.-Indonesia security cooperation has deepened over the past decade , with the two militaries conducting around 170 annual engagements , including on maritime security cooperation and combat ting terrorism. The largest U.S. - Indonesia military exercise is the annual Super Garuda Shield, hosted by Indonesia, which included over 6,000 troops from 13 nations in 202 5. This represents a sharp change from the late 1990s and early 2000s, when U.S. policies enacted in response to earlier human rights abuses by Indonesian forces severely limited bilateral engagements . In