https://crsreports.congress.gov Updated February 19, 2026 President Reagan’s Six Assurances to Taiwan Introduction Under the U.S. “one-China ” policy, the U.S. government has, since 1979, maintained official relations with the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and unofficial relations with self-governed Taiwan , over which the PRC claims sovereignty. Until 2020, U.S. Administrations described the U.S. one -China policy as being guided by three U.S.-PRC joint communiqués (concluded in 1972 , 1978 , and 1982 ) and the Taiwan Relations Act ( TRA, P.L. 96 -8; 22 U.S.C. §§3301 et seq. ). Since 2020 , U.S. Administrations have stated that the U.S. one -China policy is guided by the TRA and the joint communiqués (in that order), and also by “Six Assurances ” communicated to Taiwan ’s president in 19 82. Historical Context In the 1978 U.S.-PRC joint communiqué , the United Stat es and the PRC agreed to establish diplomatic relations on January 1, 1979 . In an accompanying statement, th e U.S. government said it would terminate diplomatic relations with the Taiwan -based Republic of China (ROC) on the same date. With some Members portraying the moves as a betrayal of Taiwan, Congress passed the TRA, enacted on April 10, 1979. Among the TRA’s provisions is that the United States “will make available to Taiwan such defense articles and defense services in such quantity as may be necessary” for Taiwan’s self -defense. By 1982, c ontinued U.S. arms sales to Taiwan pursuant to the TRA had bec ome a major irritant in the U.S.-PRC relations hip. The Ronald Reagan Administration sought to address the issue through negotiation of a third U.S.-PRC joint communiqué . In the August 17th Communiqué , named for the day in 1982 on which it was released, the PRC government affirmed “a fundamental policy of striving for a peaceful reunification” with Taiwan. With such PRC statements “in mind,” the United States stated “that it does not seek t o carry out a long -term policy of arms sales to Taiwan, that its arms sales to Taiwan will not exceed, either in qualitative or in quantitative terms, the level of those supplied [since 1979], and that it intends gradually to reduce its sale of arms to Tai wan, leading over a period of time, to a final resolution. ” Aware of mounting concern in Taiwan over the third communiqué negotiations , on July 10, 1982, then-Under Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger instructed James Lilley, director of the unofficial U.S. representative office in Taiwan, the American Institute in Taiwan, to seek a meeting with Taiwan ’s President , Chiang Ching -kuo. The talking points Eagleburger sent Lilley by cable for the meeting , authorized by President Reagan, included statements detailing what the U.S. government had not agreed to in its negotiations with the PRC . Those statements , delivered to President Chiang on July 14, 1982, are now known as the U.S. “Six Assurances” to Taiwan. Table 1. The Official Texts of the Six Assurances CRS has bolded