(on August 18 ). He wove the Six Assurances into his testimony in both chambers , but did not label the assurances as such or disclose that President Reagan had offered them to Taiwan’s president the previous month . The three U.S. government -released versions of the Six Assurances are presented in Table 1. Differing U.S. Government Texts For nearly 38 years, the sole publicly released U.S. government text for the Six Assurances was woven into Holdridge’s 1982 testimony. The Eagleburger and Shultz cables remained classified. In the absence of authoritative stand -alone text, some sources asserted that the Six Assurances stated that “t he United States would not formally recognize Chine se sovereignty over Taiwan.” House Concurrent Resolutions introduced in seven Congresses cited that purported assurance: H.Con.Res. 69 (109th Congress), H.Con.Res. 73 (110th), H.Con.Res. 18 (111th), H.Con.Res. 122 (112th), H.Con.Res. 29 (113th), H.Con.Res. 124 (115th), and H.Con.Res. 117 (116th). The 114th Congress approved resolutions ( H.Con.Res. 88 and S.Con.Res. 38 ) that quoted from the assurances woven into Holdridge’s 1982 testimony. Both urged “the President and Department of State to affirm the Six Assurances publicly, proactively, and consistently as a cornerstone of United States -Taiwan relations. ” The first Trump Administration declassified the Eagleburger and Shultz cables in 2020 , entering into the public record two more authoritative , but slightly different, U.S. texts for the Six Assurances. Areas of difference are discussed below. Taiwan’s s overeignty: The Eagleburger cable includes an assur ance that in negotiations with the PRC, “We have not agreed to take any position regarding sovereignty over Taiwan.” The Shultz cable is more ambiguous, st ating that the U.S. side “has not altered its position regarding sovereignty over Tai wan,” without stating the U.S. position , or lack thereof . The Shultz cable includes the parenthetical statement, “FYI: If asked why we have modified the statement on sovereignty, you should explain that we have consistently used this terminology in our public statements.” The Holdridge testimony similarly states “no change ” in the U.S. position, without stating that position . Taking no position on Taiwan’s sovereignty has been long - standing U.S. policy. Verb tenses: The three U.S. government -released versions of the Six Assurances vary in the verb tenses they use for indiv idual assurances. In t he Eagleburger cable , five of the assurances are in past tense (“have not agreed ”) and one is in future tense (“will never” pressure Taiwan to negotiate with the PRC) . In the Shultz cable, one additional assurance is forward -looking ( “will not” mediate between Taipei and Beijing). In the Holdridge testimony, three assurances are forward -looking , the third being that the United States has “no plans” to seek revisions to the TRA. The Six Assurances in Legislation The varying verb tenses of individual assurances contribute to ambiguity about the degree to which they might be read as guiding future policy. Without resolving that ambiguity, since 2017, Congress has passed 11 laws with provisions referencing