https://crsreports.congress.gov Updated March 4, 2026 U.S.-China Trade Relations The People’s Republic of China (PRC or China) is the second -largest global economy and has been a top U.S. trading partner since China joined the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 2001 . China is a major export market for U.S. aircraft, agriculture, semiconductor equipment /chips, gas turbines, and medical devices , and a top source of U.S. consumer goods and manufacturing inputs . At the same time, challenges that U.S. firms face from China include a lack of market access reciprocity, trade barriers in key areas, a strong PRC state role in commercial activity, and expanding industrial policies, export controls, and economic security and data rules . Trade issues raised by U.S. officials and executives since the 1990s have broaden ed into a U.S. government focus on strategic comp etition with the PRC . The executive branch and Congress have debated and adopted approaches , such as tariffs and restrictions on investment and market access , to counter PRC practices they say distort markets, hinder fair competition, and challenge U.S. economic leadership . PRC Trade and Investment Terms The PRC government controls or influences the purchase, financ ing, and price of top U.S. exports to China —aircraft, semiconductors, medical equipment, agriculture, and energy. It has sought to increase control of this trade and reduce its reliance on U.S. imports by diversifying trade with other countries and advanci ng industrial policies that exploit foreign commercial ties to develop PRC capabilities in top import sectors. For example, i n aerospace, to meet PRC terms, some U.S. firms have partnered with and transferred advanced U.S. technology to PRC state firms to jointly develop a PRC single -aisle aircraft (C -919). The PRC government funds imports of U.S. semiconductor manufacturing equipment to support the development of China’s semiconductor industry. PRC policies have required firms to localize supply chains. PR C procurement rules in pharmaceuticals and medical devices have set fixed prices, which has increase d cost pressures and encourage d firms in these sectors to produce in China. The PRC has selectively opened its market and controlled foreign firms’ participation in ways that have capped the ability of such firms to compete. Foreign firms may initially fill PRC gaps with their products, services, and capabilities, but PRC plans se t targets to displace such firms once China gains competencies. The PRC’s economic system integrates state and corporate interests, enabling the government to use trade tools (e.g., antidumping, antitrust, export controls market approvals, technical standa rds, and procurement) as well as economic coercion and IP theft to advantage PRC firms and economic goals. In strategic sectors, PRC policies have required foreign firms to set up joint ventures and transfer technology. The PRC government has supported some PRC firms in strategic areas , and fund ed overseas investment (including acquisitions of foreign firms) in priority areas—such as agriculture, biotechnology, critical minerals, and semiconductor s—to gain capabilities , support PRC manufacturing , and expand in global markets. Trade