anticipate s to “complete the [program] restructure and achieve a Milestone B decision by the end of 2026” and deliver an “initial capabili ty targeted for the early 2030s.” The Air Force now plans to build new silos , instead of reusing old ones, a process that will reportedly require a supplementary environmental impact statement. The Army Corps of Engineers, rather than Northrop Grumman, will now reportedly manage some of the ground infrastructure updates . The Air Force said that it plans to conduct a pad launch in 2027. According to a February 2026 GAO report , the ICBM’s first flight test will now occur in March 2028. Warheads The Air Force plans to initially deploy the Sentinel with the W87 -0 warhead currently on the MMIII. NNSA is developing the W87 -1 warhead , whic h, according to NNSA , “is slated to deploy between FY2031 and FY2032.” NNSA announced the qualification of the first war reserve plutonium pit for the W87 -1 in October 2024 . Lockheed Martin is developing the Mk21A reentry vehicle for the W87 -1. DOD and NNSA are also modernizing the arming and fuzing assembly for the MMIII and the Sentinel. Considerations for Congress ICBM Force Necessity Some analysts have argued that the United States reduce or eliminate its ICBMs because they increase the risk of accidental war , or because the invulnerability of ballistic missile submarines makes ICBMs “ redundant .” Advocates of retaining ICBMs have argued that these missiles are the most “responsive” leg of the U.S. nuclear triad. The 2022 Nuclear Posture Review (NPR), a Biden Administration review of U.S. nuclear policy, echoed past NPRs in stating that the three triad legs are “complementary,” with each one “offering unique attributes.” MMIII Life -Extension Some Members of Congress have questioned the need to fund an d deploy new ICBMs; others have also suggested that the Air Force again c onsider MMIII life extension . They, along with other commentators , have argued that a delay or cancellation of Sentinel could ease financial and other pressures caused by the simultaneous recapitalization of all legs of the nuclear triad. In 2021, DOD commissioned an independent study on future ICBM options , which recommended an assessment of MMIII life -extension. However, the 2022 NPR endorsed Sentinel and said that any alternative “would increase risk and cost.” Air Force officials stated in January 2024 that they d id not see a “viable” long -term MMIII life -extension, though they were “committed” to doing “everything [they] can to keep it in the field.” A September 2025 GAO study stated that the Air Force may operate the MMIII through 2050, though it faced parts obsolescence and other sustainment risks. Sentinel Costs and Schedule Some Members of Congress have been con cerned about the costs and schedule delays associated with the Sentinel, the W87 -1 warhead, and NNSA plutonium pit production. Section 1629 of the FY2025 NDAA (P.L. 118 -159) imposed conditional requirements on the program to ensure oversight