retaliation to U.S. tariff s has involved non-tariff actions as the PRC ran out of U.S. products to effectively tariff given the trade imbalance. The PRC has canceled ord ers, imposed market restrictions, and enacted export controls on U.S. production inputs . It expanded export control s to cover more trade and require disclosure about the end-use of PRC input s, likely increasing PRC visibility and leverage over U.S. firms . Negotiations: Such PRC actions appear to have fostered a dynamic in talks in which U.S. officials have sought to delay new PRC measures in exchange for concurrent delays in U.S. actions , potentially distracting from U.S. efforts to address systemic trade issues . The Trump Administration also delayed some trade actions in fall 2025 as part of its efforts to seek a trade deal and ahead of President Trump’s planned visit to China in late March 2026 . For example, t he Department of Commerce delayed for one year a rule to expand export controls to cover foreign affiliates of PRC firms on the Bureau of Industry and Securi ty’s Entity List. USTR also delayed imposing tariff s after finding PRC semiconductor and shipping policies actionable under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974. The PRC has offered to purchase items it typically buys but withheld during talks (e.g., aircr aft, beef, and soybeans). The Administration’s decision to allow Nvidia to export its H200 chips to the PRC (and set terms by which the U.S. government is to collect 25% of the sale’s proceeds) prompted debate in Congress in light of U.S. policies to restrict semiconductor trade with China. Former U.S. officials criticized negotiating national security decisions in exchange for trade concessions, saying that such actions contradict past U.S. practice . See CRS Report R48642, U.S. Export Controls and China: Advanced Semiconductors . U.S.-China Trade Relations https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF11284 · VERSION 34 · UPDATED Other Actions. PRC i ndustrial policies are driving China’s overcapacity, exports, and overseas investment in sectors such as electric vehicles. To address concerns about data security and the PRC state’s ties to PRC firms , in 2025 , the Commerce Depa rtment issue d rules that restrict the use of PRC connected technology in vehicles . Provisions in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026 (P.L. 119 -60) restrict some U.S. technology investment in China, codify ing provisions in President Biden ’s Executive Order 14105 . President Trump announced in 2025 that TikTok’s U.S. operations are to be run by a joint venture majority -owned and -controlled by U.S. persons in which TikTok’s parent, ByteDance , and its affiliates have up to a 20% stake. P.L. 118 -50 (Div. H and Div. I) restricts TikTok and other PRC -tied digital platforms in the U.S. market . Karen M. Sutter , Specialist in Asian Trade and Finance IF11284 Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It