of the United States; (B) while engaged in military operations in volving conflict with an opposing foreign force; or (C) while serving with friendly foreign forces engaged in an armed conflict in which the United States is not a belligerent party against an opposing armed force; or (3) who lost or lose their lives after March 28, 1973, as a result of —(A) an international terrorist attack against the United States or a foreign nation friendly to the United States, recognized as such an attack by the Secretary of Defense; or (B) military operations while serving outside the United States (including the commonwealths, territories, and possessions of the United States) as part of a peacekeeping force. ” Under 10 U .S.C. §1126 (d)(1), “The term “next of kin” means individuals standing in such relationship to members of the Armed Forces described in subsection (a) as the Secretaries concerned shall jointly specify in regulations for purposes of this section. ” Section 3.3 of DODI 1348.36 details who may wear the GSLB . Families of servicemembers who died in circumstances other than those list ed under 10 U.S.C. §1126(a) may not be eligible for the Gold Star Lapel Button . However , they may be eligible to display a gold star on the Service Flag and may qualify for the Next of Kin Lapel Button. (For more information, s ee DODI 1348.36 in Section s 4.1-4.3.) Next of Kin Lapel Button Approved in 1973, the Next of Kin Lapel Button (also referred to as the Next of Kin Pin) is provided to the famil ies of servicemembers who lost their lives while serving on active duty or while serving in a drill status as a member of the National Guard or Reserves in circumstance other than killed in action. The Next of Kin Lapel Button is gold, with a star within a circle of sprigs of oak. According to DOD ’s Casualty, Mortuary Affairs, and Military Funeral Honors Programs Content Guide , the star denotes honorable service and the oak sprigs symbolize the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force. Figure 1. Gold Star Lapel Button (left) and Next of Kin Lapel Button (right) Source: Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors (TAPS) at https://www.taps.org/ articles/ 15-2/goldstarpins Military Deat h Benefits After the death of a servicemember on active duty, the respective military department assigns a casualty assistance officer to assist any surviving spouse, child (ren), or other designated beneficiaries, with all eligible benefits and entitlements. These generally include the following: • $100,000 tax -exempt, lump sum, DOD death gratuity paid to designated beneficiaries. • Burial assistance including the disposition of remains and travel to the burial site for the servicemember’s immediate family . • Any u npaid pay and allowances at the time of death. Gold Star Designation: An Overview https://crsreports.congress.gov • Residence in government housing or payment of Basic Allowance for Housing ( BAH ) for up to a year . • Access to commissar ies and exchange s. • TRICARE benefits