statements detailing what the U.S. government had not agreed to in its negotiations with the PRC . Those statements , delivered to President Chiang on July 14, 1982, are now known as the U.S. “Six Assurances” to Taiwan. Table 1. The Official Texts of the Six Assurances CRS has bolded the verb tenses Eagleburger cable: for Taiwan’s Pres. Chiang (7/10/82) Shultz cable: for Taiwan to make public (8/17/1982) Holdridge testimony before Senate (8/17/1982) “We have not agreed to set a date certain for ending arms sales to Taiwan.” The U.S. “ has not agreed to set a date for ending arms sales to Taiwan.” “[W]e did not agree to set a date certain for ending arms sales to Taiwan.” “We have not agreed to prior consultation on arms sales [to Taiwan] ” The U.S. “ has not agreed to consult with the PRC on arms sales to Taiwan.” “[The 1982 joint communiqué] should not be read to imply that we have agreed to engage in prior consultations with Beijing on arms sales to Taiwan. ” “We have not agreed to any mediation role for the U.S.” The U.S. “ will not play any mediation role between Taipei and Beijing.” “[W]e see no mediation role for the United States.” “We have not agreed to revise the Taiwan Relations Act.” The U.S. “ has not agreed to revise the Taiwan Relations Act.” “We have no plans to seek any such revisions [to the TRA].” “We have not agreed to take any position regarding sovereignty over Taiwan.” The U.S. “ has not altered its position regarding sovereignty over Taiwan.” “[T]here has been no change in our longstanding position on the i ssue of sovereignty over Taiwan.” “The PRC has at no time urged us to put pressure on Taiwan to negotiate with the PRC; however, we can assure you that we will never do so.” The U.S. “ will not exert pressure on Taiwan to enter into negotiations with the PRC.” “[N]or will we attempt to exer t pressure on Taiwan to enter into negotiations with the PRC .” President Reagan’s Six Assurances to Taiwan https://crsreports.congress.gov Source: “Declassified Cables ,” American Institute in Taiwan; U.S. Congress, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, U.S. Policy Toward China and Taiwan , 97th Cong., 2nd sess., August 17, 1982 . After Taiwan ’s government requested U.S. permission to make the assurances public , then-Secretary of State George Shultz on August 17, 1982 , provided Lilley with a reworded version of the Six Assurances for that purpose . In Washington, DC, then-Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs John H. Holdridge testified about the communiqué before the Senate (on August 17 ) and the House (on August 18 ). He wove the Six Assurances into his testimony in both chambers , but did not label the assurances as such or disclose that President Reagan had offered them to Taiwan’s president the previous month . The three U.S. government -released versions of the Six Assurances are