the missile —a process known as life -extension —several times over the past 50 years. The Air Force has stated that some of these components may face reliability concerns as they reach the end of their inten ded lifespan s. After conducti ng an Analysis of Alternatives in 2014, the Air Force decided to replace MMIII with a new missile system (originally Ground Based Strategic Deterrent) that would serve through 2075 . The Air Force argued that, when compared with a life -extended M MIII, the new ICBM would meet current and expected threats , main tain the industrial base , produce a modular weapon system , and reduce life cycle cost. The Air Force and Northrop Grumman, the Sentinel’s lead defense contractor, planned for the Sentinel to begin replacing MMIII in 2029. Program Status The Air Force plans to procure 634 Sentinel missiles , plus an additional 25 missiles to support devel opment and testing , to enable the deploy ment of 400 missiles . The Air Force also originally planned to modernize 450 silos and over 600 facilities (see Figure 1). Figure 1. Sentinel Deployment and Support Locations Source: Air Force Global Strike Command , 2023. In January 2024, the Air Force informed Congress that the Sentinel program exceeded its initial cost projections, positing at least a 37% increase (from $118 million initial Defense Primer: LGM -35A Sentinel Intercontinental Ballistic Missile https://crsreports.congress.gov baseline cost to $16 2 million in 2020 dollars ) in the cost per unit. This cost incre ase is known as a “critical” breach per the Nunn -McCurdy Act (Title 10 U.S. Code §§4371 -4377) , which requires DOD to certify that the program is essential to national security , has no cheaper alternatives, and cannot be terminated. It also mandates that DOD develop new cost estimates and program milestones and submit this information to Congress. Air Force officials have attributed cost increases to ground infrastructure update s. In July 2024, DOD announced completion of the Nunn - McCurdy review and that the program “ met the statutory criteria to continue .” DOD officials said the review resulted in the rescindme nt of the Sentinel’s Milestone B approval , and that DOD’s Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation (CAPE) estimated the cost of a “reasonably modified” Sentinel at $141 billion. Air Force officials have said that they are reexamining requirements and restructur ing the program to make the ground segment “simpler” and “more affor dable .” In December 2025, t he Senate confirmed Air Force General Dale White as Direct Reporting Portfolio Manager (DRPM) to oversee several major Air Force acquisition programs , includi ng the Sentinel. In February 2026, the Air Force announced that it anticipate s to “complete the [program] restructure and achieve a Milestone B decision by the end of 2026” and deliver an “initial capabili ty targeted for the early 2030s.” The Air Force now plans to build new silos , instead of reusing old ones, a process that will reportedly require