https://crsreports.congress.gov Updated March 2, 2026 Gold Star Designation : An Overview Background During the years of U.S. participation in World War I (WWI, 1917 -1918), an informal practice developed where some families would display service banners adorned with blue stars in the windows of their homes to signify participation in the armed forces. Each blue star symbolized a family member serving in the war. When a servicemember was killed or died, it became customary for families to replace the blue star with a gold star. In a separate but related practice , President Woodrow Wilson expressed support in May 1918 for a recommendation made by the Women’s Committee of the Council for National Defense that American women should wear a black band on the upper left arm, affixed with a gold star to signify the loss of a family member during the war . In October 1942 , Congress enacted P.L. 77-750 “to authorize the Secretary of War to approve a standa rd design for a service flag and a service lapel button .” Current policy by the Department of Defense (DOD ), which is “using a secondary Department of War designation,” under Executive Order 14347 dated September 5, 2025, regarding display of the gold star on the Service Flag is contained in DOD Instructio n (DODI) 1348.36, Gold Star Lapel Button, Service Flag, and Service Lapel Button . The policy remains essentially unchanged, stating: “If the Service member symbolized is killed or dies from causes other than dishonorable, the star representing that individual will have a gold star of smaller size superimposed on it, so that the blue forms a border.” Gold Star Lapel Button In 1947, Co ngress enacted P.L.80 -306, requiring the “Secretary of War and the Secretary of the Navy” to provide Gold Star Lapel Buttons (GSLB) “for widows, parents, and next of ki n of members of the armed forces who lost their lives” in the U.S. armed services during World War II (WWII) . The G SLB has a gold star mounted on a purple surface surrounded by laurel leaves. See Figure 1. GLSB eligibility has evolved over time. Current criteria are outlined under 10 U.S. C. §1126(a) : “A lapel button, to be known as the gold star lapel button, shall be designed, as approved by the Secretary of Defense, to identify next of kin of members of the armed forces —(1) who lost their lives during World War I, World War II, or during any subsequen t period of armed hostilities in which the United States was engaged before July 1, 1958; (2) who lost or lose their lives after June 30, 1958 —(A) while engaged in an action against an enemy of the United States; (B) while engaged in military operations in volving conflict with an opposing foreign force; or (C) while serving with friendly foreign forces engaged in an armed conflict in which the United States is not a belligerent party against an opposing armed force; or (3) who lost