for Fiscal Year 2015 . The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has its own contrac ting preferences for veteran -owned small businesses (VOSBs), created by the Veterans Benefits, Health Care, and Information Technology Act of 2006 ( P.L. 109 -461). VA is the only agency with a contracting program specifically for VOSBs. This VA -only program exists alongside the government -wide SDVOSB program. Contracting officers at the VA may award contracts on a sole-source basis as long as the contract award will not exceed $5 million (including options) and the award can be made at a fair and reasonable price; they must also prioritize SDVOSBs first, and can only make sole source awards to a VOSB if no responsible SDVOSB has been identified. Sole-Source Award Conditions When determining whether to consider making a sole - source award, a gencies generally consider the value of a contract and the number of available small businesses able to complete required work. If a contracting officer at an agency has a “ reasonable expectation ” of obtaining offers from two or more small businesses, a contract is typically set-aside for small firms. However, regulations direct an agency to make a sole-source award to a small business if it is the only firm that makes an “acceptable offer ” in response to a set -aside and is “a responsible small business concern ” (48 C.F.R. §19.502 -2(a)). For contracts above the “simplified acquisition threshold” of $350,000 , a contracting officer must “first consider an acquisition for the small business socioeconomic contracting programs” —i.e., contracting programs for certain types of small businesses such as WOSBs, small businesses locate d within a HUBZone, and SDVOSBs — before setting aside a contract for small businesses in general (48 C.F.R. §19.203(c)) . If applicable conditions are met, a contracting officer may choose to make a sole -source award to a qualified business that participates in one of the socioeconomic contracting programs. Agencies may make sole -source awards in order to reach annual goals for small business participation in procurement. There are five government -wide statutory Sole-Source Contracts for Small Businesses https://crsreports.congress.gov small business contracting goals , not only for small businesses generally, but for small businesses owned by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals (including 8(a) Program participants) , WOSBs , HUBZone firms , and SDVOSBs . For information on small business contracting goal -making and attai nment, see CRS Insight IN12018, Federal Small Business Contracting Goals . Federal Contracting Program Certifications Firms that wish to be eligible for contract set -asides or sole - source awards are subject to certification requirements . While firms may self-certify their status as small businesses, each socioeconomic small business contracting program has eligibility and certification requirements. Firms may obtain certification for their status through the SBA ’s online certification platform . Procedures for filing a challenge, or “protest” to a firm’s socioeconomic status are outlined at 13 C.F.R. §126.800 -126.805 for HUBZone firms, 13 C.F.R. §128.500 for SDVOSBs (and veteran - owned small