upd ates to account for inflation have raised this value to $150 million . Contracts Awarded to Small Businesses The Small Business Act ( P.L. 85 -536) requires the General Servic es Administration ( GSA ) to provide a report on all prime contract procurements made each fiscal year. The report , “Federal Procurement Data System Report ,” tallies contracting preferences used by agencies . For example, the FY202 4 report states that the dollar value of contracts made to small businesses as sole -source awards was $30.3 billion , or 3.9% of contract obligations (shown in Figure 1). This amount is provided relat ive to total contract expenditures of $774 billion , of which awards to “other than small business es” totaled $ 598 billion and awards to s mall business totaled $17 6 billion. For more information about where to find data on federal contracts made to small businesses , see CRS Report R48185, Sources of Data on Federal Small Business Contracts: In Brief . Figure 1. FY202 4 Share of Small Business Contract Dollars Awarded as Sole-Source Awards Source: GSA, “Final Data Report: FY202 4 Federal Procurement Data System GSA Report, ” at https://www.gsa.gov/ policy -regulations/ policy/ acquisition -policy/ small-business -reports . Note: The GSA report is statutorily required to include “all procurements made for the period covered by the report and may not exclude any contract awarded ,” while SBA reporting on contracts awarded to small businesses excludes certain contracts when the work cannot realistically be performed by small businesses. R. Corinne Blackford , Analyst in Small Business and Economic Dev elopment Policy Sole-Source Contracts for Small Businesses https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF12853 · VERSION 8 · UPDATED IF12853 Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.