https://crsreports.congress.gov Updated February 20, 2026 Sole-Source Contracts for Small Businesses Introduction Provisions of the Small Business Act authorize (and, in some cases, require ) federal agencies to provide small businesses a preference when making a contract award. Preferences for small business contractors may take the form of contract set -asides , which may limit the competition for an award to small firms , or sole -source awards , which are contracts made to a firm without competition from other firms . Agencies may make sole - source awards to small businesses under some circumstances , subject to limits on the value of such awards . This In Focus provides an overview of sole-source contracts for small businesses . For more information about contract set-asides for small businesses, see CRS In Focus IF12852, Federal Contract Set -Asides for Small Businesses . For detailed information o n small business contracting policies and contracting programs for certain types of small business owners , see CRS Report R45576, An Overview of Small Business Contracting . Origin of Small Business Contr acting Preferences Many existing s mall business contracting policies and programs re flect 1953 legislation, seeking, in part, to ensure that a “fair proportion ” of federal contract and subcontract dollars is awarded to small businesses (P.L. 83 -163, the Small Business Act (as amended) ). The Competition in Contracting Act of 1984 (CICA) (enacted as part of the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984, P.L. 98-369, §§2701 -2753) requires that contracts be entered into after “full and open competition through the use of competitive procedures ” unless otherwise authorized by law. To help facilita te contracting opportunities for small businesses, Congress has authorized federal agencies , under specified circumstances , to set aside contracts and award sole-source contracts to small businesses . Small businesses that may receive sole -source contract a wards include participants in “socioeconomic” contracting programs . Authorizations for sole -source awards to firms in these programs were made through distinct pieces of legislation, as follows: • 8(a) Program ; 8(a) Program participant sole -source awards wer e authorized by P.L. 95 -507, To amend the Small Business Act and the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, §202; • Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) Program ; HUBZone firm sole -source awards were authorized by P.L. 105 -135, the HUBZone Act of 1997 ; • Service -Disabled Veteran -Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) Program ; SDVOSB so le-source awards were authorized by P.L. 108 -183, the Veterans Benefits Act of 2003 ; • Women -Owned Small Business (WOSB) Program ; WOSB sole -source awards were authorized by P.L. 113 - 291, the Carl Levin and Howard P. “Buck ” McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 . The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has its own contrac ting preferences for veteran -owned small businesses (VOSBs), created by the Veterans Benefits, Health Care, and Information Technology Act of 2006 ( P.L. 109 -461). VA is the only agency with a contracting program specifically