https://crsreports.congress.gov Updated February 26, 2026 U.S.-Russian Nuclear Arms Control : Overview and Potential Considerations for Congress The United States has periodically sought to advance its national security interests through the negotiation and conclusion of nuclear arms control agreements with its adversaries. Throughout 2025 and in 2 026, President Donald Trump has discuss ed potential talks with Russia and China concerning nuclear weapons reductions. Congress plays an important role in arms control, which is implemented pursuant to treaties or agreements negotiated by the executive branch. The Senate considers providing advice and consent to the ratification of treaties and the confirmation of executive branch nominees for positions in the Department of State (DOS) , Department of Defense (DOD) , Department of Energy, and the intelligence community . Congress also authorizes and appropriates funds for, as well as provides oversight of , those U.S. government agencies that negotia te, implement, monitor , and verify compliance with treaties and agreements . Background During the Cold War and in its aftermath, the United States and the Soviet Union (which Russia and other Soviet republics dissolved in 1991) sought to minimize the costs and risks of nuclear competition and improve so-called strategic stability . Following the 196 2 Cuban Missile Crisis , the United States and the Soviet Union created a “ hotline ” to communicate in a nuclear crisis , which, along with some later risk reduction agreements , sought to reduce dangers of an accidental or inadvertent nuclear war . After the Soviet Union achieved rough parity in strategic nuclear forces with the United States, and began to deploy ballistic missile defenses , the two countries engaged in Strategic Arms Limitations Talks (SALT). The 1972 SALT I Treaty and A nti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty negotiated by the Johnson and Nixon Administration s and the 1979 SALT II Treaty negotiated by the Nixon , Ford , and Carter Administration s resulted in some limits on strategic nuclear forces and ballistic missi le defenses . Subsequently, t he Reagan Administration concluded the 1987 Intermediate -Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty , which verifiably destroyed all ground -launched ballistic and cruise missiles of intermediate ranges . The Reagan and George H. W. Bush Administrations negotiated the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START I), which resulted in the “largest arms control reductions in history,” according to DO D. In 2002, the George W. Bush Administration concluded the Moscow Tr eaty reducing U.S. and Russian strategic nuclear forces. The executive branch has also at times withdrawn from arms control, including in 2002 from the ABM Treaty and in 2019 from the INF Treaty , when it deemed these accords to no longer be in the U.S. national security interest. New START Until February 5, 2026, t he United States and Russia were parties to t he 2010 New START Treaty , under which the two countries verifiably r educed their strategic nuclear forces to 1,550 deployed warheads on 700 deployed strategic delivery vehicles (intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs ); submarine -launched