and potential exports . U.S. and Western Security Assistance Since the start of Russia’s 2022 war, the United States has committed more than $66 billion , the EU over $ 70 billion, and the UK over $1 7 billion (among other donors) in security assistance to Ukraine . This support is coordinated by NATO Security Assistance and Training for Ukraine (NSATU ), currently led by a U.S. three -star general. Simultaneously , Western o fficials have repeatedly voiced concerns over poten tial escalation of the conflict , defense industrial production capacity challenges , and the availability of funding to sustain security assistance. Training The United States and other allies have provided training and advice to the UAF since before Russia’s 2022 invasion . Most training efforts focus on employing Wester n security assistance , basic infantry skills and unit -level development , and combined arms operations . Currently, the UK (Oper ation Interflex ), the European Union Military Assistance Mission Ukraine ( EUMAM ), and the United States (the Joint Mult inational Training Group —Ukraine ) conduct a variety of training programs for the UAF . Equipment The UAF continues to request a wide range of equipment from the United States and other Western countries , especially advanced weapons such as air defense systems and ammunition, anti -drone capabilities, and fighter support. At the tactical level, the UAF has identified protected mobility (e.g., armored vehicles) , counterbattery radars, artillery , and fire support among its needs . Frontline UAF soldiers and commanders have also reportedly expressed concern about the availability of basic supplies . The focus of Western security assistance appears to have shifted from donations of existing equipment to financing procurement and investment . In 2024, Ukraine and Denmark reached an agreement ( the so-called “Danish Model ”) to finance equipment purchase s from Ukraine’s domestic defense industry. Additionally, in 2025 , NATO and the United States created the Prioritized Uk raine Requirements List (PURL) , through which allies contribute funds to purchase “ critical defence equipment ” from the United States . Current Milita ry Outlook The UAF continues to demonstrate high levels of tactical flexibility and capability in the face of Russian quantitative advantages in personnel, equipment, drones, and air support. The UAF continues to hamper Russian efforts and has thus far stymied any new large -scale Russian breakthrough in Ukraine’s Donbas region. Fighting remains attritional and positional, with the UAF primarily focused on defending the “ fortress belt ” of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk , which anchor UAF defenses in the Donbas region. According to U.S. officials , Russia captured 1,865 square miles of Ukrainian territory in 2025 , but “ nowhere on the front did this equate to more than 60 miles of penetration or any territory of operational significance.” The UAF leadership has been criticized for its strategy of refusing to withdraw from positions, even risking potentia l encirclement, and for continuing to launch offensives. Ukraine’s strategy appears to be centered on limiting Russian territorial