a world class vehicle today and into the future. A February 18, 2026 , Request for Information (RFI) for Ground Combat Vehicle Production , while not specifically mentioning replacing the XM -30 or Bradley, seeks “information from industry partners to explore innovative solutions for the rapid design, production, and delivery of ground combat vehicles. ” It was reportedly sugges ted such an action by Army leadership could serve to put pressure on the current XM -30 developers to accelerate the program and also open the program to existing fighting vehicle designs . Potential Oversight Issue for Congress The Viability of the XM-30 Program Should the Army decide to end the current XM -30 effort at Milestone B, a ny new effort would reportedly be the seventh attempt to replace the Bradley since the 1980s. This arguably raises several question s: After about four decades of attempts , can the Army decide upon and field a suitable Bradley IFV replacement? Furthermore, what are the ramifications for the armor ed fighting vehicle defense industrial base going forward if successive Bradley replacement efforts have ended at the prototype phase or earlier? Could this discourage vendors from current and future U.S. Army IFV development altogether? Given the Army’s p ast attempts to replace the Bradley and the apparent uncertainty of the program’s way forward, Congress might decide to examine the viability of the XM - 30 program. Andrew Feickert , Specialist in Military Ground Forces Ebrima M'Bai , U.S. Army Fellow IF12094 The Army’s XM -30 Mechanized Infantry Combat Vehicle (Formerly the Optionally Manned Fighting Vehicle [OMFV]) https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF12094 · VERSION 19 · UPDATED Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.