Steven Fagin also serve d as head of the Gaza -focused Civil -Military Coordination Center . UN Special Envoy for Yemen Hans Grundberg engages Yemeni and regional actors in efforts “aimed at advancing dialogue and de -escalation .” Yemen: Conflict, Red Sea Security, and U.S. Policy https://crsreports.congress.gov Figure 1. Yemen: Approximate Areas of Influence and Operation As of February 2026 Source: CRS, using ACAPS , Humanitarian Access Overview, December 2025 , ESRI, UN Panel of Experts, and U.S. State Department data . Humanitarian Situation The UN reports that 19.5 million Yemenis (more than half the population) need humanitarian assistance and protection. In December 2025, UN agencies reported that a “severe gap” in humanitarian funding during the year forced providers “to scale back critical services despite escalating need s.” T he annual UN humanitarian funding appeal for Yemen sought $2.47 billion in 2025 to provide life-saving assistance to 10.5 million people an d was 28.3% funded . Limits on movement and bureaucracy constrain humanitarian access and affect aid delivery, largely in Houthi -controlled areas, where the Houthis have detained UN and aid w orkers. The World Food Programme (WFP) reportedly is ending its operations in Houthi -controlled northern Yemen given security risks and funding cuts . Counterterrorism Insecurity in Yemen creates opportunities for an estimate d 2-3,000 Yemen -based Al Qaeda members , who UN monitors report maintain a “covert pragmatic relationship” with the Houthis and an allia nce with the Somalia -based Al Shabaab . According to UN monitors, the Houthis also have “limited collaboration” with Al Shabaab. Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps -Qods Force and Lebanon’s Hezbollah also have operated in Yemen. Houthi Attacks and U.S. Responses Following the October 7, 2023, Hamas -led attacks on Israel , and Israel’s military operations in Gaza, the Houthis began targeting Israel i territory as well as commercial ships transiting the Bab al Mandab Strait . Through 2024, U.S. forces in tercepted Houthi -launched projectiles, prevented some attempted Houthi seizures of vessels, led coalition patrol operations, and struck Houthi targets in Yemen. On March 15, 2025, U.S. forces began a military campaign the Administration intended to compel the Houthis to end their attacks and eliminate their capability to threaten maritime transit. The Houthis resist ed, attacked U.S. Navy ships, and shot down U.S. unmanned aircraft . A U.S.-Houthi truce has held since May 2025 , but Houthi attacks on Israel were not suspended until October 2025 . In June, U.S. CENTCOM stated that “ only through a whole of government approach, of which military operations are a key component, will a sustained return of freedom of navigation be guaranteed.” UN Security Council Resolution 2722 (2024) demands the Houthis cease attacks , and , in January 2026, the Council extend ed related reporting provisions until J uly 2026 . Foreign support and accumulated expertise may allow the Houthis to pose enduring maritime security risks. U.S. sanctions target the group’s far-reaching networks . U.S. officials have described Iran’s efforts to suppl y the Houthis