PRC often sets terms for asset sales and technology transfer b efore approving deals. In 2023 , the PRC effectively blocked Intel’s bid for I srael Tower Semiconductor, a LiDAR chip producer. PRC firms use China’s courts to set foreign IP licensing terms and launch copycat cases to challenge U.S . court rulings. In 2019 , U.S. firm Velodyne charged the PRC’s Hesai and RoboSense with illegally ac quiring IP during talks to produce its products in China. In 2020, Veldoyne and Hesai reached a global cross -licensing patent agreement . In 2023, U.S. Ouster charged Hesai with IP infring ement . China’s Use of the U.S. Market PRC LiDAR firms are using U.S. capital markets to secure financing, enter the U.S. market, form partnerships, and acquire U.S. technology . In 2022 , CITIC , a PRC state inves tor, undertook a $1.4 billion reverse merger with U.S. Quanergy Systems . Quanergy de clared bankruptcy 10 months later and sold its assets for $3.2 million to a limited liability company (LLC) with possible Russia ties . In 2018, China’s sovereign wealth fund CIC bought U.S. Boyd Corporation with Goldman Sachs. In 2015 , the PRC state semico nductor fund financed PRC NavTech’s acquisition of Sweden’s Silex and a MEMS foundry in China that uses Silex ’s IP. In 2015, PRC state investors bought OmniVision, a U.S. sensor desig ner (Table 1). PRC auto firm Geely is invested in U.S. Luminar and co -develop ing LiDAR technologies. Hesai is partnered with Bosch, a German automotive supplier and key LiDAR patent holder. China also has ties to U.S. LiDAR research. For example, Tsinghua -UC Berkel ey Shenzhen Institute’s phot onics lab in China works on LiDAR . The Institute’s ties to University of California may allow PRC access to the Sensor & Actuator Center and Marvell Nanolab in Berkeley . LiDAR USA is a Hesai distributor ; in 202 4 Hesai incorporated in the U.S. market as Ame rican LiDAR . Robosense has a North American headquarters in Michigan; in 2024, it joined MCity, a University of Michigan research center. Table 1. Select ed PRC Purchases of LiDAR Firms Year Target Acquirer Capability 2015 OmniVision State investors Sensor design 2015 Silek NavTech , Sino IC Fund Microscopic sensors 2018 Boyd Corp. CIC Optical encoders Faraday Future Evergrande , CAS LiDAR IP 2022 Quanergy CITIC Hardware , software Source: Media and industry reports. While U.S. and other non -PRC firms have led t he LiDAR marke t with advanced research capabilities and IP, PRC firms are poised to quickly take a leadership position . PRC industrial policies , acquisitions of foreign firms and IP , and corporate partn erships have already rapidly enhanced PRC firms ’ position in the LiDAR market , particularly in automotive LiDAR , as seen in patents granted to PRC firms (Figure 2). Supported by state monies and market preferences , PRC firms are scaling up quickly in China . Hesai has a $98.4 million credit line to expand