in 2025 and 2026 committee hearings, about the extent to which current and future U.S.-Russian nuclear arms control is in the U.S. national security interest . Some Members have argued that there is “continued value” in such arms control, and “ urged ” talks f or a new treaty and mutual observance of New START limits . Other Members have expressed concerns about Russia’ s noncompliance with arms control commitments , urged DOD to prepare for a future where Russian nuclear weapons are not bound by New START, and stressed the importance of U.S. nuclear modernization . Arms control and U.S. nuclear modernization Congress may consider how arms control, and the timelines for any potential limits on U.S. capabilities, interact with the progress of U.S. nuclear modernization. The United States is modernizing its nuclear forces , including procuring a new ICBM , a new strategic bomber , and a new ballistic missile submarine ; updat ing its nuclear command, control, and communications (NC3) system and regional deterrence capabilities ; and modernizing its nuclear weapons complex . The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated in 202 5 that the operation and modernization of U.S. nuclear forces could total over $ 95 billion a year. DOD has continued to prioritize modernization, but President Trump has also stated that “tremendous amounts of money are being spent” on nuclear weapons and expressed hope that the United States , Russia, and China could decrease defense spending. Russia’s nuclear capabilities of concern Congress may consider whether Russian nuclear weapons present a threat to the United States that could be managed through ar ms control. Some Russian officials have suggested that new U.S. ballistic missile defense developments may affect Russia’s willingness to maintain treaty limits . According to open source s, Russia, like the United States , has reserve nu clear warheads that it could upload on strategic delivery vehicles . Russia has nuclear weapons that did not fall under New START . The Obama, Trump, and Biden Administrations unsuccessfully sought to negotiate verifiable limits o n nonstrategic nuclear weapons (NSNW) , as per guidance in the Senate’s 2010 resolution of New START ratification . U.S. o fficials have considered the po ssibility of an agreement that would cover all types of nuclear warheads, including those for NSNW , though it would likely require intrusive verification measures . In 202 3, President Putin stated that Russia ha d deployed NSNW to Belarus. Russia also has novel nuclear and nuclear -capable delivery vehicles that Pres ident Putin has said are intended to counter U.S. ballistic missile defense s. Russia included some of these —a new heavy ICBM and an ICBM -mounted hypersonic glide vehicle —in New START. Other s, such as a nuclear-powered cruise missile and a n autonomous underwater system , remain ed outside of an arms control framework . According to the U.S. intelligence community’s unclassified 2025 Annual Threat Assessment , Russia was also “developing a new satellite meant to carry a nuclear weapon .” Arms control