https://crsreports.congress.gov Updated March 2, 2026 Ukrainian Military Performance and Outlook Since Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, the Ukrainian Armed Forces (UAF ) have defended and repelled Russian advances, despite ongoing disadvantages in personnel and a smaller defense industry . The UAF ha s demonstrated flexibility over the course of the conflict as well as an ability to integrate Western security assistance . Nevertheless, t he UAF continues to face obstacles , including p ersonnel and equipment losses . From FY2022 to FY2024 , Congress enacted five supplemental appropriations measures to provide assistance to Ukraine . The UAF’s evolving condition and performance may be of interest to the 119th Congress as Members weigh the impact of U.S. support for the UAF and potentially consider any further assistance to Ukraine or conduct oversight of U.S. policies toward Ukraine and Russia . Personnel Since the beginning of the 2022 war, the UAF has suffere d high levels of casualties (data on Ukrainian casualties are sparse , but one estimate places UAF killed as high as 140,000 ), lowering force quality. In addition, desertion and draft evasion pose continued challenge s to the UAF’s ability to sustain operations. In January 2026, Ukraine’s Defense Minister Mykhailo Fedorov estimated that 200,000 soldiers were absent without official leave (AWOL) and 2 million men were avoiding draft not ices. After Russia’s initial invasion of Ukraine in 2014, the UAF gained important combat experience fighting Russian -led forces in Ukraine’s eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk (known as “the Donbas ”). In 2022, Ukraine was able to quickly mobilize these veterans and other volunteers into new volunteer Territorial Defense Forces (TDF) and Reserve without the need for lengthy training. This arguably contributed to UAF effectiveness , since Ukraine did not have a fully developed professional noncommissioned officer (NCO) corps . Many initial volunteers have been killed or wounded since 2022 . Reportedly, the average Ukrainian soldier is over 40 years old , and s ome recruits have health or substance abuse issues. Ukraine passed legislation in April 2024 to address some recruitment issues . However, the government continues to reject some calls to lower the conscription age from 25 to 18 , a policy that would likely meet with public opposition. In February 2025, the UAF implemented a new option for volunteers between the ages of 18 and 24 to sign one -year contracts in return for higher wages, a signing bonus, exemption from mobilization for 12 months, and other social benefits. While this option initially drew som e interest , the UAF has struggled to recruit and retain younger recruits , and reports indicate recruitment officials have sometimes turned to more coercive methods . Training To replace losses, recruiting and training new personnel remain key tas ks. The UAF faces a dilemma in seeking to adequately train new recruits amid demands to provid e immediate reinforcements. Ukrainian officials have institute d new training standards, including centralized training centers and an increas e in