and -owned open standard . As technology and software evolve , MOSA could potentially facilitate rapid XM-30 modernization at a reduced cost. The o pen architecture of the XM-30 could also offer more oppor tunities for industry competition and i nnovations as the XM-30 is upgraded. The Army is conducting a five -phase acquisition approach to design, prototype, test, and produce the XM-30: • Phase 1 consists of Market Research and Requirement Development . • Phase 2, the Concept Design Phase , include s modeling, simulation, and analysis (MS&A) to inform requirements and support initial design activities . • Phase 3, the Detailed Design Phase , includes detailed design activities to mature XM-30 designs and concludes with a Critical Design Review (CDR). A CDR is a technical review to ensure the initial product baseline is established . Successful completion of CDR provides the technical basis for proceeding into fabrica tion, integration, development , test , and evaluation of a system. • Phase 4, the Prototype Build and Test Phase , verifies prototype performance against performance specification s. Late in this phase, a Limited User Test (LUT) is to be conducted. • Phase 5, the Production and Fielding Phase , is to result in a single Low-Rate Initial Production ( LRIP ) contract for production, testing , and initial fielding. Program Activities Phase 2 Contracts Awarded The Army announced the award of five firm -fixed price contracts for XM-30 Phase 2 Concept Design Phase using full and open competitive procedures on July 23, 2021 . The The Army’s XM -30 Mechanized Infantry Combat Vehicle (Formerly the Optionally Manned Fighting Vehicle [OMFV]) https://crsreports.congress.gov contracts were awarded to Point Blank Enterprises, Inc. (Mia mi Lakes, FL); Oshkosh Defense, LLC (Oshkosh, WI); BAE Systems Land and Armaments L.P. (Sterling Heights, MI); General Dynamics Land Systems, Inc. (Sterling Heights, MI); and American Rheinmetall Vehicles, LLC (Sterling Heights, MI). The total award value for all five contracts was approximately $299.4 million. During this phase , competing firms were asked to develop digital designs . On November 1, 2022, it was reported that all five firms had submitted their XM-30 digital designs prior to the November 1 deadline. All five proposals reportedly were hybrid electric vehicles . Phase 3 and 4 Contracts Awarded On June 26, 2023, the Army announced [t]he award of two firm -fixed price contracts for the Optionally Manned Fighting Vehicle [XM -30] Phase 3 and 4 Deta iled Design and Prototype Build and Testing phases, using full and open competitive procedures. The contracts were awarded to General Dynamics Land Systems Inc. (Sterling Heights, M I) and American Rheinmetall Vehicles LLC (Sterling Heights, M I). The total award value for both contracts is approximately $1.6 billion. FY2025 Program Update According to the Department of Defense (DOD) FY 2025 Program Acquis ition Costs by Weapons Systems The Army anticipates transitioning from an MTA - RP to a Major Capability Acquisition Pathway at Milestone B in the 2nd quarter of Fiscal Year (FY) 2025 and plans