$1.6 billion. FY2025 Program Update According to the Department of Defense (DOD) FY 2025 Program Acquis ition Costs by Weapons Systems The Army anticipates transitioning from an MTA - RP to a Major Capability Acquisition Pathway at Milestone B in the 2nd quarter of Fiscal Year (FY) 2025 and plans to enter Low -Rate Initial Production (LRIP) in the 1st quarter F Y 2028 with a Full Rate Production (FRP) decision slated for FY 2030. FY2026 Program Update According to the Department of Defense (DOD) FY 2026 Program Acquisition Costs by Weapons Systems The XM30 is an MTA -RP program. Milestone B was approved in June 2025, and Milestone C is targeted for first quarter FY 2028. The Army Transformation Initiative will accelerate this program. [In FY2026 the Army] continues to fund prototype vehicle designs from Preliminary Design Review (PDR) through CDR in preparation for both physical prototype builds and tests. XM-30 Preliminary Design Review (PDR) Reportedly , General Dynamics Land Systems and Americ an Rheinmetall Vehicles completed their PDR in August 2024 and , after a critical design review, development of physical prototypes was planned to begin. According to Defense News Prototypes will take 18 to 20 months to construct after the critical design reviews wrap up. Once prototypes are delivered, the Army will move into a test and evaluation phase with both competitors before deciding on a winner in FY2027. The first vehicles are expected to be fielded in FY2029 . Milestone B Decision In June 2025, the U.S. Army reportedly approved Milestone B for the XM -30 program, advancing it into the engineering manufacturing development phase after both competitors completed critical design reviews. However, in February 2026, Army leadership reportedly opted not to sign documen tation finalizing the Milestone B decision to avoid locking the service into a specific design or a slow acquisition path, effectively pausing formal program transition and prompting a reevaluation of the program’s approach . XM-30 Milestone B Pause and a New Request for Information (RFI) According to the February 2026 report , the Chief of Staff of the Army, General Randy George, and the Secretary of the Army , Dan Driscoll, decided not to sign off on the Milestone B decision “ to leave the door open to a major reworking of the XM -30 Mechanized Infantry Combat Vehicle program. ” Reportedly , regarding the pause, an Army spokesman stated We are actively assessing multiple, competing designs for the XM -30 to foster a truly competitive environment We continue to look for partners who can deliver cutting -edge solutions now, not decades from now. This is a deliberate and necessary step to ensure we assess and select the best approach to deliver a world class vehicle today and into the future. A February 18, 2026 , Request for Information (RFI) for Ground Combat Vehicle Production , while not specifically mentioning replacing the XM -30 or Bradley, seeks “information from industry partners to explore innovative solutions for the rapid design, production, and delivery