PRC firms ’ position in the LiDAR market , particularly in automotive LiDAR , as seen in patents granted to PRC firms (Figure 2). Supported by state monies and market preferences , PRC firms are scaling up quickly in China . Hesai has a $98.4 million credit line to expand production in Shanghai and sa id in its 2023 filing with the S ecurities and Exchange Commission that it would use earnings from its U.S. initial public offering for acquisitions, research , and manufacturing. PRC firms had 58% of the global automotive LiDAR market in 2020 , as measured by shipment s. Many PRC firms operat e at a loss and may be selling below cost to gain market share . Some analysts say the LiDAR market is ripe for consolidation , which may give China op enings to acquire U.S. firms and expand . Figure 2.Major Automotive LiDAR Patent Holdings Source: CRS, adapted from Henry Patent Law Firm . Note s: *China acquired U.S. firms Faraday Future and Quanergy (and then sold Quanergy assets to an LLC in bankruptcy proceedings) . A patent family is a patent collection covering similar technical content. Military Ties and National Security Issues In China, LiDAR systems are regulated as radio systems that require military approval. Additionally, PRC policies seek to develop technologies that are interoperable for civilian and military use and may allow PRC state access. PRC LiDAR firms support mili tary programs. NavTech provides navigation technology for satellites (Beidou) and aviation defense (drones and fighter jets). Hesai makes equipment used in autonomous warfighting vehicles and is reportedly tied to the military’s China Electronics Technolog y Group Corporation . Robosense has ties to the Harbin Institute of Technology, a military university. There are reports that the U.S. federal government, state governments , and the U.S. military may be using or considering the use of PRC LiDAR systems. If so, it could have U.S. national security implications. China could use data compiled by PRC LiDAR systems to acquire sensitive information or exquisite mapping of U.S. infr astructure . China could use this information to conduct military or industrial espionage or gain operational advantages in a military conflict. PRC firms also could introduce malware via a software update and degrade the performance of systems using the te chnology. In 202 5, the Department of Defense relisted Hesai on its list of military companies in accordance with the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for F Y2021, Section 1260H (P.L. 116 -283). Additionally, i n December 2025, the Department of Commerce issued rules that restrict the use of PRC connected technology in U.S. vehicles. Issues for Congre ss To help ensure fair competition and to protect U.S. national security, Congress could consider the tactics China is using to advance in LiDAR and whether to strengthen U.S. and allied procurement rules to review or restrict federal, state, and military acquisition of PRC LiDAR systems. Congress could also consider policies related to investment, export controls, fair