equate to more than 60 miles of penetration or any territory of operational significance.” The UAF leadership has been criticized for its strategy of refusing to withdraw from positions, even risking potentia l encirclement, and for continuing to launch offensives. Ukraine’s strategy appears to be centered on limiting Russian territorial advances and imposing more casualties than Russia is able to replace . In January 2026, Ukrainian defense minister Fedorov said a strategic goal was “ to kill 50,000 Russians per month.” While some reports indicate the UAF has at times succeeded in impos ing more casualties than Russia can replace, other observers express skepticism about this strategy given the UAF’s own losses. Some observers argue for a greater emphasis on targeting Russian logistics and command centers, but the UAF lacks sufficient medium -range strike capabilities. Another component of UAF strategy has been to undermine Russia’s ability to economically sustain its war by targeting Russian oil production and export facilities . While th e UAF seeks to adopt NATO -style (mission command) principles of command, it also exhibits traits of Soviet -style (centralized, top -down) command. Some observers have criticiz ed the UAF command for poor communication and micromanagement. To improve coordination and maximize resources, the UAF has implemented reforms by establishing corps that control a set number of brigades and are responsible for particular section s of the fr ont line. Some UAF officials report improved coordination, but the process is ongoing ; reports indicate some corps are better resourced with personnel and equipment than others . Recruiting, training, rotating, and retaining troops remain challenge s for the UAF. The UAF faces severe infantry shortages and is seeking to recruit more personnel. Most frontline UAF and TDF brigades are understrength and receive ad hoc rotation from the front line. With a porous front line, Russian forces are seeking to identif y, bypass, and exploit weak UAF positions. The UAF relies on a core of professional units to fill gaps in the front line and counter Russian advances. Some observers and UAF officers argue these professional units get priority for personnel and equipment at the expense of other units. Losses and exhaustion also continue to degrade these units’ capabilities, as they appear increasingly called to various positions acros s the front line . Some observers suggest that overreliance on select units, combined with personnel losses, has contributed to Russian advances. Andrew S. Bowen , Analyst in Russian and European Affairs IF12150 Ukrainian Military Performance and Outlook https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF12150 · VERSION 16 · UPDATED Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work