protests and unrest prompted the president of the Republic of Yemen Government (ROYG) to resign. A UN-mediated transition and national dialogue sought to broker new governing arrangements . The Houthi movement (alt. Ansar Allah or Partisans of God), a north Yemen -based Zaydi Shia network , opposed UN-backed outcomes and resumed an insurgency . In 2014, the Houthis seized the capital, Sana’a , and later advanced on Aden . ROYG leaders fled and sought international intervention. In March 2015, a coalition led by Saudi Arabia began a military campaign against the Houthis . Houthi attacks across Yemen’s borders grew in complexity and scope with deepening support over time from Iran . The United States provided logistical, intelligence, and advisory support to the coalition, but ended aerial refueling in 2018 and later curtailed some arms sales to Saudi Arabia in response to civilian casualties and congressional action . Power -sharing agreement s in 2020 and 2022 brought anti- Houthi forces together under a coalition . An STC offensive on ROYG -aligned forc es in December 2025 and Saudi military intervention resulted in the STC ’s dissolution and changes in the makeup of the ROYG ’s eight -person Presidential Leadership Council (PLC) . The ROYG also expanded and reshuffled its cabinet . Saudi Arabia is now the ROYG ’s principal sponsor and security partner as the ROYG and former STC members consider next steps . Conflict Status and U.S. Diplomacy Since 2015, conflict has caused widespread humanitarian suffering and significant infrastructure damage in Yemen, long the Arab world’s poorest country. Foreign observers have denounced human rights violations attributed to all parties. Since 2022, violence has not returned to pre-truce levels , but intermittent cross -line fighting occurs. The STC’s dissolution is prompting a reorganization of anti - Houthi forces. The Houthi s continue to consolidate control in the north having demonstrated their capacity to threaten international shipping, Israel, and other regional states . The Trump Administration has taken military action against the Houthis and redesignated the group as a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO) in March 2025 . The Trump Administration has supported the UN Security Council ’s decision to end the UN Mission to Support the Hudaydah Agreement (UNMHA), a December 2018 ceasefire agreement that halted fighting over Yemen’s Houthi -held Red Sea ports . In January 2026, Deputy U.S. Representative to the UN Tammy Bruce said “the Security Council should concentrate its efforts on depriving the Houthis of resources to conduct their terrorist activities. ” Since February 2015, the U.S. Ambassador to Yemen and a Yemen Affairs Unit (YAU) have been based at the U.S. Embassy in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. From October 2025 to January 2026 , U.S. Ambassador to Yemen Steven Fagin also serve d as head of the Gaza -focused Civil -Military Coordination Center . UN Special Envoy for Yemen Hans Grundberg engages Yemeni and regional actors in efforts “aimed at advancing dialogue and de -escalation .” Yemen: Conflict, Red Sea Security, and U.S. Policy https://crsreports.congress.gov Figure 1. Yemen: