https://crsreports.congress.gov Updated February 26, 2026 U.S.-China Competition in Emerging Technologies : LiDAR The governments of the United States and the People’s Republic of China (PRC or China) have both identified strategic and emerging technologies as a key element of economic competitiveness and national defense. Efforts to lead in such technologies are a core aspect of U.S.-China strategic competition . Some emerging technologies have both civilian and m ilitary uses. Among these technologies is Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR), a remote sensing technology used in automotive, agriculture, manufacturing, weather, and other systems . The LiDAR market and its uses are developing quickly. U.S. firms have led in LiDAR to date, but PRC firms are advanc ing with the support of PRC industrial policies and access to the U.S. market and technology . Some PRC firms have used questionable practices to obtain U.S. LiDAR intellectual property (IP) . LiDAR Technology LiDAR is a remote sensing method that us es pulsed laser light to measure the distance, speed, and/or altitude of physical objects to map the surrounding environment. LiDAR allows for precise, accurate, and rapid three -dimensional measurements of natural and manmade environments with high resolut ion and long -range detection. Unlike other sensing technologies (e.g., cameras), LiDAR’s performance is not degraded in low -light conditions. There are different types of LiDAR. Scanning LiDAR uses mechanical rotation to spin the sensor and enables 360 -degree detection. U.S. firm Velodyne (now merged with U.S. firm Ouster) developed the first scanning LiDAR. Microelectro -mechanical system (MEMS) LiDAR uses miniature mobile mirrors to scan the environment. MEMS firms include the U.S. firm Atomica. Optical ph ased array (OPA) LiDAR does not require sensor movement and is thus more durable than alternative LiDAR technologies. OPA firms include Quanergy. Flash LiDAR works like a camera to map environments using a single laser pulse. Flash LiDAR firms include Ledd arTech (Canada), Sense Photonics (U nited States ), and Continental (Germany). LiDAR Development and Applications The United States first developed LiDAR as a military technology in the 1960s for defense and aerospace uses. Since then, the LiDAR market has expanded with the development of systems capable of autonomous navigation, for which LiDAR is a critical enabling technology. Its use has grown rapidly with demand for electric vehicles (EV) and related autonomous driving systems (Figure 1). Commercial: LiDAR has a range of applications in mapping, satellites, and space . In the automotive sector, LiDAR provide s sensin g capabilities for lane -keeping, collision avoidance, advanced driver assistance, and autonomous navigation. In precision farming , it can monitor crop conditions and soil health. In meteorology, LiDAR can improve weather forecasting. In manufacturing, firms use the technology for robotics and to monitor safety and productivity. “Smart cities” pair LiDAR with other technologies to int egrate sensor networks in utilities, transportation, and infrastructure. Chattanooga, Tennessee , for example, plans to use LiDAR at 86 traffic intersections in an effort to improve traffic management and safety. Military : U.S. and PRC forces are among the