, in January 2026, the Council extend ed related reporting provisions until J uly 2026 . Foreign support and accumulated expertise may allow the Houthis to pose enduring maritime security risks. U.S. sanctions target the group’s far-reaching networks . U.S. officials have described Iran’s efforts to suppl y the Houthis with weaponry, targeting information , and military advice . In July, U.S. officials announced that Yemeni forces had seized 750 tons of munitions and hardware intended for Houthi use. Yemen and the 11 9th Congress The 119th Congress may consider whether or how to respond to developmen ts in Yemen, including intra -Yemen conflict or attacks by Houthi forces outside of Yemen. Members also may conduct oversight of related military or diplomatic initiatives by the Trump Administration. The 2026 National Defense Authorization Act (P.L. 119 -60) authorizes the U.S. military to treat as U.S. stocks any weapon or materiel intended for the Houthis obtained by the United States in transit or otherwise and to use them for drawdown purposes, including transfer . In 2025 , some Members question ed President Trump ’s assertions of authority to direct military operations in Yemen . Christopher M. Blanchard , Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs IF12581 Yemen: Conflict, Red Sea Security, and U.S. Policy https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF12581 · VERSION 18 · UPDATED Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.