and productivity. “Smart cities” pair LiDAR with other technologies to int egrate sensor networks in utilities, transportation, and infrastructure. Chattanooga, Tennessee , for example, plans to use LiDAR at 86 traffic intersections in an effort to improve traffic management and safety. Military : U.S. and PRC forces are among the militaries using LiDAR to support autonomous navigation capabilities for uncrewed ground and aerial vehicles (UxV). LiDAR’s precision and speed enable military -specific use. UxV equipped with LiDAR could be used to conduct battle damage assessment —an esti mate of the physical and functional damage produced by an attack —removing the need for military personnel to be physically present and exposed on the battlefield. LiDAR -equipped UxV could be used to survey structural damage after natural disasters and to collect environmental data in remote or dangerous locations. The U.S. military has explored using LiDAR to identify and determine the depth of littoral sea mines and to conduct atmospheric monitoring to predict laser weapons’ effectiveness. The U.S. Army sa ys potential uses include “platform target identificat ion, aim point selection, range instrumentation support, weapon defenses , and mapping. ” Figure 1. LiDAR Applications: Market Forecasts Figure is interactive in the HTML version of this In Focus. Source: CRS, adapted from Yole Group. Notes: ADAS is advanced driver assistance systems. Mfg. is manufacturing. 2021 is actual market. 2027 is forecasted market. China ’s Industrial Policies China’s LiDAR firms benefit from PRC industrial pol icies and related subsidies, market protections, preferences (e.g., procurement) , and other practices widely seen as unfair . PRC policies direct and finance the acquisition of foreign IP to develo p China’s LiDAR and related technologies (e.g., semiconductors and optical sensors ). In 2020, China prioritized state support to develop sectors that use LiDAR (e.g., smart cities, smart manufacturing, autonomous driving ). Since 2022, the PRC has encouraged foreign investment in its LiDAR sector on terms that develop PRC capabilities and has placed LiDAR under export controls . PRC policies additionally emphasize t echnical standards setting to promote the use of China’s IP and help PRC firms expand globally . PRC LiDAR firm Hesai has led China’s efforts to develop national and global LiDAR standards. In the International Standards Organization, Hesai co -leads the Automotive LiDAR Working Group in developing a test method for LiDAR performance and safety. Hesai co- developed a U.S. standard for automotive LiDAR in 2020 and global optical radi ation safety standards in 2022 . U.S.-China Competition in Emerging Technologies: LiDAR https://crsreports.congress.gov PRC policies incentivize aggressive tactics to obtain foreign IP, which may distort the common use of trade tools and involve questionable practices or illicit activity . In antitrust reviews of global deals , the PRC often sets terms for asset sales and technology transfer b efore approving deals. In 2023 , the PRC effectively blocked Intel’s bid for I srael Tower Semiconductor, a LiDAR chip producer. PRC firms use China’s courts to set foreign IP licensing terms and launch copycat cases to challenge U.S