https://crsreports.congress.gov Updated March 3, 2026 The Army’s XM-30 Mechanized Infantry Combat Vehicle (Formerly the Optionally Manned Fighting Vehicle [OMFV ]) Background The Army’s Optionally Manned Fighting Vehicle (OMFV) is being designed to replace the M -2 Bradley Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV) (see Figure 1 for a notional example) . Optionally manned means the OMFV is to have the capability to conduct remotely controlled operations while a crew is not in the vehicle . The M -2 Bradley, which has been in service since 1981, transport s infantry on the battlefield , provide s fire support to dis mounted troops , and can destroy enemy fighting vehicles. Updated numerous times since its introduction, the M -2 Bradley is widely considered to have reached the technological limits of its capacity to accommodate new electronics, armor, and defens ive syste ms. Two past efforts to replace the M -2 Bradley —the Future Combat System (FCS) Program and the Ground Combat Vehicle (GCV) Program —were cancelled for programmatic and cost -associated reasons. Figure 1. Notional Example —OMFV Sour ce: U.S. Naval Institute (USNI) , https://news.usni.org/ 2021/ 12/ 30/report -to-congress -on-armys -optionally -manned -fightin g-vehicle - to-congress -on-armys -optionally -manned -fighting -vehicle , accessed April 18, 2022. Note : This is a notional example ; the Army’s OMFV selected for production may differ from this example. OMFV Redesignated XM -30 Mechanized Infantry Combat Vehicle On June 26, 2023 , upon the completion of the initial digital design phase , the Army redesignat ed the OMFV as the XM - 30 Mechanized Infantry Combat Vehicle. Role of the XM-30 According to the 2024 Department of Defense (DOD) FY 2025 Program Acquisition Costs by Weapons Systems The XM -30 Combat Vehicle (previously OMFV), as part of an Armored Brigade Combat Team (ABCT), will replace the Bradley Infantry Fighting Vehicle to provide the capabi lities required to defeat a future near -peer competitor ’s force. The XM-30 is an optionally manned platform that maneuvers soldiers to a point of positional advantage to engage in close combat and deliver decisive lethality during the execution of combined arms maneuver. It is designed to operate with and may operate without a crew and soldiers under armor based on the commande r’s decision. It delivers decisive lethality during the execution of combined arms maneuver while also controlling maneuver robotics and semi -autonomous systems XM-30 Acquisition Approach The XM -30 is currently a Middle Tier Acquisition Rapid Prototyping (MTA -RP) program. The XM -30 is to be the Army’s first ground combat vehicle designed using state- of-the-art digital engineering tools and techniques. It is to be designed from the onset as a Modular Open Systems Architected (MOSA) platform based on an Army -defined and -owned open standard . As technology and software evolve , MOSA could potentially facilitate rapid XM-30 modernization at a reduced cost. The o pen architecture of the XM-30 could also offer more oppor tunities for industry competition and i nnovations as the XM-30 is upgraded. The Army is conducting