START Until February 5, 2026, t he United States and Russia were parties to t he 2010 New START Treaty , under which the two countries verifiably r educed their strategic nuclear forces to 1,550 deployed warheads on 700 deployed strategic delivery vehicles (intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs ); submarine -launched ballistic missiles ; and strategic bombers). Between 2023 and 2026, Russia did not participate in parts of the treaty’s verification regime . This followed Russian President Vladimir Putin ’s announcement that Russia w ould “suspend participation ” in New START , citing concerns about UK and French nuclear weapons and also Western efforts to achieve Russia’s “strategic defeat” in the war in Ukraine. Russia n officials stated that Russia would observe treaty central limits, but would suspend data exchanges and consultations . The DOS called Russia’s suspension “legally invalid” and announced countermeasures . The DOS had also expressed concerns about Russia’s compliance with New START in congression ally mandated public annual reports . In September 2025, President Putin stated that Russia could continue to abide by New STAR T limits after the treaty’s expiration date if the United States did so. On February 5, 2026, the day of New START ’s expiration, President Trump posted on social media that “rather than extend” New START, the United States “should ” negotiate a “new, improved, and modernized Treaty.” On February 11, Russian officials stated that Russia would abide by New START central limits as long as the United States did so. New START Follow -on Negotiations In 2020, during the first Trump Administration, U.S. and Russian officials held several meetings to discuss arms control issues , including potential limits o n Russian nonstrategic nuclear weapons , which are nuclear weapons deployed on delivery vehicles with ranges shorter than strategic nuclear weapons. The United States also sought to include China , which declined to participate , in talks . In 2021, the Biden Administration engaged with Russia in a Strategic St ability Dialogue (SSD) to “lay the groundwork for future arms control and risk reduction measures.” The United States advocat ed including all Russian nuclear weapons in a notional agreement . Russia, in turn, proposed discus sing nuclear and nonnuclear weapons, missile defense, outer spa ce, and other issues , which , Russia argued, affected strategic stability. The SSD process ended in 2022, following Russia’s full -scale invasion of Ukraine. U.S.-Russian Nuclear Arms Control: Overview and Potential Considerations for Congress https://crsreports.congress.gov In February 2026, citing President Trump’s post arguing for a new nuclear weapons treaty, Administration officials called for “multilateral nuclear arms control and strategic stability talks” involving Russia and China. Potential Consideratio ns for Congress Members of Congress have deliberated , including in 2025 and 2026 committee hearings, about the extent to which current and future U.S.-Russian nuclear arms control is in the U.S. national security interest . Some Members have argued that there is “continued value” in such arms control, and “ urged ” talks f or a new treaty and