such as a nuclear-powered cruise missile and a n autonomous underwater system , remain ed outside of an arms control framework . According to the U.S. intelligence community’s unclassified 2025 Annual Threat Assessment , Russia was also “developing a new satellite meant to carry a nuclear weapon .” Arms control in a two -nuclear -peer environment Congress may consider how U.S.-Russian nuclear arms control fits into in an environment where China’s nuclear arsenal is expanding , with potential implications for U.S. deterrence requirements . According to a 2024 unclassified DOD assessment , China may have over 1,000 “operational nuclear warheads” by 2030. The Biden Administ ration’s 2024 nuclear employment strategy argued that “the types of limits that the United States will c onsider,” including in future negotiations with Russia, “will be influenced by the actions and trajectories of other nuclear -armed actors.” The 2023 report of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States , which warned of an emergence of a “two -nuclear -peer” threat , argued that the United States need ed to start with a strategy and appropriate nuclear force requirements prior to “developing U.S. nuclear arms control limits for the 2027 -2035 timeframe.” The Commission also stressed the need for research into verification technologies to support future arms control efforts and highlighted the potential importance of formal and informal risk reduction measures with both Russia and China “to increase predictability and reduce uncertainty .” In the ab sence of arms control, s uch measures, according to some experts , could range from data exchanges to operational constraints, such as political commitments to avoid interfering with NC3 or with monitoring by national technical means . Russia’s willingness to discuss risk reduction is uncertain . Role of Congress in arms control and risk reduction Congress may consider what its role may be in future efforts to manage the risks of nuclear competition . In past Congresses , Members have debated, assessed, and conducted oversight of U.S.-Russian arms control and risk reduction measures and their contributions to U.S. national security. Some Members have proposed risk reduction measures for potential executive branch enactment . Other s have served as U.S. observers in arms control negotiations. The Senat e’s 2010 resolution of advice and consent to ratification of the New START Treaty states that “further arms reduction agreements … may be made only pursuant to the treaty -making power of the President as set forth in Article II, section 2, clause 2 of the Constitution of the United States. ” However, the executive branch may also pursue nonbinding or political commitments that may not require Senate action. U.S.-Russian Nuclear Arms Control: Overview and Potential Considerations for Congress https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF12964 · VERSION 8 · UPDATED CRS Products CRS In Focus IF12672, Russia’s Nuclear Weapons CRS Insight IN12640, Extension of New START Central Limits: Overview of the Expert Debate CRS Insight IN12568, Golden Dome: Potential Strategic Stability Considerations for Congress CRS Report RL33865, Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog