. Training To replace losses, recruiting and training new personnel remain key tas ks. The UAF faces a dilemma in seeking to adequately train new recruits amid demands to provid e immediate reinforcements. Ukrainian officials have institute d new training standards, including centralized training centers and an increas e in basic training to 1.5 months (up from one month ). Despite improvements, most training for new recruits happens in their respective units. This argua bly contributes to differ ing levels of capability across the UAF , as some more elite units prioritize training and provide quality instructors. Additionally, the UAF reportedly struggles to train officers for staff positions to assist commanders in managing and coordinating operations. A lack of trained staff officers has , in some cases , led to higher -level command staff coordinating and managing tactical operations. The UAF has announced organizational changes (such as organizing brigades under the command of a corps) t o streamline management and coordination . Equipment The UAF operates a mix of Western and Soviet -era or Russian equipment and has sustained significant equipment losses during the course of the war . The UAF has exhibited resilience in the face of such los ses, in part due to Western security assistance and concerted UAF maintenance efforts . The diversity of systems, continued losses, and varied supply, however, undermine UAF standardization. Ukrainian officials assert Western security assistance remains critical for supporting UAF operations. Ukraine has nearly exhausted its supplies of Soviet and Russian equipment ( especially artillery and ammunition ) and relies on se curity assistance for a variety of key systems, such as air defense and medium -range strike capabilities. Low supplies of artillery systems and ammunition have forced the UAF to adapt to other systems such as drones. Alongside Western security assistance, Ukraine’s domestic defense industry has increased production and continues to innovate . Ukraine currently produces a wide range of systems, including drones (tactical and long -range strike), missiles , artillery systems, radar and electronic warfare, ammunition, and armored vehicles. Ukrainian officials maintain that a robust and capable domestic defense industry is essential to Ukraine’s long -term security and for reducing the country’s reliance on security assistance . According to one Ukrainian estimate , as much as 76% of the weapons and equipment the UAF needs is now produced domestically. Ukrainian Military Performance and Outlook https://crsreports.congress.gov Ukraine’s defense industry still faces multiple challenges , including accusations of corruption and fraud, labor shortages, and Russian strikes. Additionally, Ukraine’s defense industry has excess capacity b ut not enough government funding to contract production. In response, Ukraine has sought alternative funding mechanisms — including foreign donors , joint production agreements , foreign investment , and potential exports . U.S. and Western Security Assistance Since the start of Russia’s 2022 war, the United States has committed more than $66 billion , the EU over $ 70 billion, and the UK over $1 7 billion (among other donors) in security assistance to Ukraine . This support