rebels against Iraqi government forces until a 1975 Iran -Iraq agreement , beginning a longtime association between Israel and Kurds in the region . 1979 - 1984 Iranian Kurdish groups sporadically control led parts of western Iran amid fighting with the new Islamic Republic; government forces eventually prevail ed. 1991 Iraqi forces killed thousands in Kurdish areas of northern Iraq after U.S. officials encouraged uprisings in the wake of the Gulf War; U.S. military operations and “no -fly zones” later stopp ed Iraqi forces from regaining control of these areas , leading to de facto autonomy and, later, a federal arrangement after 2003. 1997 United States designate d the Turkish -origin Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK , which also has a presence in Syria, Iraq, and Iran) as a foreign terrorist organization. 2014 United States began assisting Iraqi and Syrian Kurds to counter the Islamic Sta te organization; Turkey oppose d U.S. assistance for PKK -linked Syrian Kurds . 2023 Iraq agree d with Iran to close bases of Iranian Kurdish groups in Iraq near the border area , although various groups reportedly remain in the KRI. 2025 PKK announce d its dissolution amid negotiations with Turkey , pending future implementation. 2026 Regime forces in post -Asad Syria compel led an end to Syrian Kurds’ rule over much of northe ast Syria, effectively ending the ir anti -IS efforts with U.S. forces . Iranian Kurdish Groups Since February 2026 , in the aftermath of a government crackdown on nationwide protests in Iran , the following Iranian Kurdish groups have joined a Coalition of Political Forces of Iranian Kurdistan , with a stated aim to work with other opposition groups to overthrow the Islamic Republic . Kurdistan Free Life Party (PJAK). Founded in 2004, t he PJAK (designated in 2009 by the Treasury Department as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist for being a PKK offshoot ) reportedly has been activ e against Islamic Republic forces , perhaps accounting for some 70% of the Kurdish attacks on the Iranian regime since 201 4. Democratic Party of Iranian Kurdistan (PDKI). Formed in 1945, the socialist -oriented PDKI has helped lead past insurgencies in Iran , and it may have already carried out attacks against Iran’s regime in March 2026. Kurdistan Freedom Party ( PAK). The PAK, founded in 1991 , fought alongside Iraqi Kurdish forces against the Islamic State , and reportedly attacked Iranian s ecurity forces in early 2026 amid anti -government protests . Khabat Organization. Formed in 1980, Khabat also fought the Islamic State. Komala Party of Iranian Kurdistan and Komala – Reform Faction . Two of the three main branches of the socialist Komala Party, which was founded in 1969. One source posits that KRI -based Iranian Kurdish factions , taken together, have around 2,500 fighters . Another asserts that the groups may have sent hundreds into Iran in recent weeks. Issues for Congress Strategy and political -military plans, authorizations , and appropriations. Members may seek information , conduct fact -finding,