or irreversibly weakening the Islamic Republic could prove to be a formidable task . The Islamic Republic has survived external and internal challenges for 47 years . It has had access to the proceeds of vast hydrocarbon resources; it developed and frequently used a repressive apparatus; its security personnel have demonstr ated acumen for advanced technology and cybersecurity; and the regime has dispersed institutional strength and patronage throughout Iran’s large and diverse geography and population (see Figure 2) via political, economic, military, and religious networks. Moreover, popular support for Iran’s territorial cohesion and opposition to ethnic separatism appears to extend beyond regime supporters . Figure 2. Iran: “Ethn oreligious Distribution ” Source: U.S. government map 788033AI (G00987) , October 2009 . The outcome of any possible efforts to work with Iranian Kurdish groups could depend on several factors, including (1) the groups’ capabilities , cohesion, and abilities to gain support within Iran ; (2) the type of assistance, training , or direct military support provided , including with ground operations, continuing airstrikes , or establishing “no -fly zones” ; (3) regime forces’ ability to maintain control in urban centers and beyond ; and (4) whether an uprising by Iranian Kurds and Possible Support https://crsreports.congress.gov Iranian Kurds (often estimated at close to 10% of Iran’s population of over 90 million) on Iran’s mountainous western periphery would foster or dampen opposition to the regime in key Iranian cities dominated by Shia Persians and Azeris . Around 60% of Iran’s Kurds are reportedly Sunni. Since the early 20th century, Iranians have resisted several efforts by outside powers (including the United States, the United Kingdom, and the Soviet Union) to dictate or influence domestic leadership and governance. Key Iranian actors may weigh the widespread domestic poli tical and socioeconomic grievances against the regime (apparent in 2025 -2026 nationwide protests ) alongside concerns that an armed uprising could foment instability similar to that in some other regional states over the past two decades . Some may also oppo se the prospect that minorities back ed by foreign actors could play an outsize d role in shaping their country’s future . Kurds in Iran and Elsewhere: Some Historical Context for U.S. Relations 1920s - 1930s Separatist efforts by Iranian Kurdish tribes after W orld War I thwarted by Reza Shah Pahlavi , who sought to disarm Kurdish groups and suppress Kurdish identity (and whose son was the Shah overthrown in 1979) . 1946 Democratic Party of Iranian Kurdistan (PDKI) establishe d 11-month Mahabad Republic under Soviet protection after World War II , until Iranian government forces regain ed control of the area. 1960s - 1970s Israel, Iran, and the U nited States support ed Iraqi Kurdish rebels against Iraqi government forces until a 1975 Iran -Iraq agreement , beginning a longtime association between Israel and Kurds in the region . 1979 - 1984 Iranian Kurdish groups sporadically control led parts of western Iran amid fighting with the new Islamic Republic; government forces eventually prevail ed. 1991