The mined material is often transported to other facilities away from the mine for processing, with additional land, energy, water, and infrastructure requirements plus transport costs . For metallurgical appl ications, such as magnets , the REOs are further processed and separated to high -purity metals (e.g., 99.9% Nd metal) and then combined into metal alloys (e.g., Nd-iron-boron based magnets) . Because of mineralogic and technical challenges, only some REEs may be extracted or processed from REE minerals . For example, the Mountain Pass mine in California produced Eu, Ce, and La in the past due to higher demand for some applications and now produces Nd and Pr due to higher demand for magnets . Initiatives for Resilient REE U.S. Supply Chains Congress and the Trump Administration have directed the USGS , DOE , and other federal entities to advance and support research and development to ident ify REE resource s and supply chain vulnerabilities , as well as to advance extraction, processing, separation , component development , product manufacturing , and recycling . The federal government is working with private companies and some other countries to secure resilient REE supply chains. In May 2025, MP Materials , which operates the Mountain Pass REE mine , signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU ) with the Saudi Arabian mining company Maaden to develop a n REE supp ly chain in Saudi Arabia , during a U.S.-Saudi Arabia Investment Forum where President Trump secured a $600 billion Saudi Arabia n investment in the energy, defense , and mining sectors. In 2024, the Department of Defense (DOD), which is “using a secondary Department of War designation” under Executive Order 14347 , dated September 5, 2025, announced a goal to secure a complete mine -to-magnet REE supply chain by 2027. In July 2025, MP Materials established a public -private partnership with DOD where DOD will acquire $500 million in stock ; extend a $150 million loan for HREE separation expansion ; and commit to an REE price floor, offering direct payments to MP Materials if prices fall below $110 per kilogram of Nd -Pr. In January 2026, the Trump Administration announced further critical minerals and REEs initiatives that led to the formation of a critical mineral trade zone , investments in USA Rare Earth company , and a critical minerals ministerial . On Febr uary 2, 2026, the White House announced Project Vault , a $12 billion initiative to establ ish the U.S. Strategic Critical Minerals Reserve . USA Rare Earth has indicated it may be a supplier of REEs to the stockpile and that the initiative will reduce U.S. reliance on REE supplies from China. Congressional Considerations Congress may consider whether federal efforts —such as the USGS ’s Earth MRI, DOE’s Critical Materials Collaborative , DOD’s public -private partnerships , and the Export -Import Bank’s role in Project Vault —are sufficient to develop resilient U.S. REE supply chains. Legislation introduced in the 119th Congress may further support this aim. For example, H.R. 2969