so potential resources occur in only a few places around the globe . REE minerals typically occur in small concentrations in rocks. A high-grade REE deposit is usually less than 10% by weight concentration . REE minerals may contain multiple REEs bound tightly together in the miner al’s crystal structure and may contain thorium and/or uranium ; these characteristics m ay lead to technical challenges and higher costs to separate individual REEs , and to separate and dispose of any uranium or thorium. Congress established and appropriated funds in P.L. 117 -58 for the USGS Earth Mapping Resources Initiative ( Earth MRI ) to identify critical mineral resources . In 2025 , the USGS published some reports about domestic REE resources , including studies of REEs in some Mountain Pass, CA , deposits and coal deposits . REE Mining and Pr ocessing In 2010, the USGS published an overview of REE resources, potential domestic deposits, and information about exploration projects and mining. The USGS identified REE deposits in Alaska, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Wyoming. In 2018, t he USGS published an expanded , updated overview of domestic REE deposits and global REE advanced exploration and active mines . (See also a 2023 review of global REE projects .) According to the USGS, major active REE mine s include Bayan Obo, Daluxiang, Maoniuping, Weishan , and south China clay deposits in China; bastnaesite in Mountain Pass, C A; heavy mineral sands in the southeastern United States ; Mount Weld in Australia; Karnasurt Mountain in Russia; Buena Norte in Brazil; and Dong Pao Mine in Vietnam. The USGS identified some advanced REE exploration projects in Bear Lodge, WY; Bokan Mountain, AK; Elk Creek, NE; and Round Top, TX , in the United States, plus others in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Greenland, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, India, Madagascar, Malawi, Namibia, South Africa, Sweden, Tanzania, and Turkey. Because of the geologic characteristics described above , REE ore mineral extraction is more technically challenging and expensive than some other types of mineral extraction , such as copper mining and refining . Large amounts of non- ore material may need to be extracted to process the ore minerals . Mining of surficial deposi ts is less technically challenging and less expensive than mining the subsurface ; however , most surficial deposits have comparatively lower concentrations of REEs than ore minerals , requiring more total material extraction to recover the same amount of REEs by weight . After extraction, the minerals must be further processed , often with complex chemical and physical treatments , to yield hig h-purity oxides of individual REE s (e.g., NdO ). The mined material is often transported to other facilities away from the mine for processing, with additional land, energy, water, and infrastructure requirements plus transport costs . For metallurgical appl ications, such as magnets , the REOs are further processed and separated to high -purity metals (e.g., 99.9% Nd metal)