https://crsreports.congress.gov March 4, 2026 Rare Earth Element s and U.S. Supply Chains Rare earth elements ( REE s) have catalytic, magnetic, electrical, and luminescent properties vital for civilian and defense purposes. REEs may include 17 ele ments — scandium (atomic symbol Sc), yttrium (Y), and the 15 lanthanides —although some classifications exclude Sc. REEs typically are found together in nature (Sc is not found in nature with other REEs ) and are not rare in the Earth’s crust. The U.S. Geological Survey’s (USGS’s) 2025 Critical Minerals List (2025 CML ) includes most REEs, except for promethium (Pm), because the se elements are essential for the U.S. economy and security, have vulnerable U.S. supply chains , and are vital for products and services. Congress may consider the role of the federal government, international diplomacy and partnerships, and public -private partnerships in making U.S. REE supply chains more resilient to help promote a strong economy and national security . Light to Heavy REEs The 15 lanthanides —which have similar electron configuration and atomic size , making them essential for some applications —make up one row of the periodic table . They generally can be categorized as light to heavy REEs . The light REEs (LREEs , with lower atomic number s and atomic weight s than the heavy REEs [HREEs ]) include lanthanum (La), cerium (Ce), praseodymium (Pr), neodymium (Nd), Pm (rare and unstable ), samarium (Sm), europium (Eu), and gadolinium (Gd) . The HREEs include terbium (Tb), dysprosium (Dy), holmium (Ho), erbium (Er), thulium (Tm), ytterbium (Yb), and lutetium (Lu), plus Sc and Y. U.S. Applications Some U.S. REE applications , listed from greatest to least demand , include • catalysts (primarily Nd, La, Ce and Pr; used in oil refineries, catalytic converters, fuel additives, chemical processing, air pollution controls); • magnets (primarily Nd, Tb, Dy, Pr; used in electronics, vehicles, refrigeration, power generation, medical imaging) and metal alloys (primarily Nd, Y, La, Ce, Pr ; used in batteries, fuel cells, steel, superalloys, aluminum/magnesium); • glass and polishing (primarily Nd, Gd, Er, Ho, La, Ce, Pr; used in polishing compounds, pigments and coatings, ultraviolet resistant glass, photo -optical glass, x-ray imaging) ; • phosphors (primarily Nd, Eu, Tb, Y, Er, Gd, Ce, Pr; used in phosphors -based displays, fluorescent lights, medical imaging, lasers, fiber optics); and • ceramics (primarily Nd, Y, Eu, Dy, Lu, Gd, La, Ce, Pr; used in capacitors, sensors, colorants, scintillators, refractories). Some U.S. REE defense applications include satellite communications, guidance systems, aircraft structures, fly- by-wire, and smart missiles ( primarily Nd, Eu, Tb, Dy, Y, Lu, Sm, Pr, La). Dominance of the People’s Republic of China The People’s Republic of China (PRC , or China ) mines about 60% and processes and separates about 90% of global REEs . It also manufactures about 94% of REE -based magnets. China’ s monopolistic role in the REE market has include d subsidizing China’s REE industry, distorting REE prices, hindering fair competition, and restricting REE supplies. In 2023, the PRC