about 60% and processes and separates about 90% of global REEs . It also manufactures about 94% of REE -based magnets. China’ s monopolistic role in the REE market has include d subsidizing China’s REE industry, distorting REE prices, hindering fair competition, and restricting REE supplies. In 2023, the PRC banned the export of REE processing and refining technologies. In 2025 , it announced export controls on Sm, Gd, Tb, Dy, Lu, Sc, and Y. China is the leading produc er of Sc, Y, and the 14 lanthanides on the USGS 2025 CML . In 202 5, the largest REE mine production was in China (270,000 metric tons [MT] of rare earth oxide equivalent [REO ]), followed by the United States ( 51,000 MT total from two mines, one each in California and Georgia ), Australia (29,000 MT), and Burma (22,000 MT). In 202 5, the largest estimated reserves (i.e., the working inventory of mining companies’ supplies of an economicall y extractable mineral commodity) were in China (44 million MT), followed by Brazil (21 million MT), Australia ( 6.3 million MT), Russia (3.8 million MT), Vietnam (3.5 million MT), the United States (1.9 million MT), and Greenland (1.5 million MT). In 202 5, the United States was 67% net import reliant for most REEs from China, Malaysia, Estonia , and Japan . It was 100% net import reliant for Sc from Japan and China and for Y from China , Germany , Austria , and the Republic of Korea . REE Resources Several Congress es and Administration s have directed the USG S to identify critical mineral resources, including REE resources , in the United States and other countries ( e.g., Afghanistan ) and to track global REE mine production and reserves to increas e U.S. REE supply chains ’ resilien ce. The USGS critical minerals update summarizes some related federal government activities from 2017 to 2025. The USGS defines a resource as a concentration of naturally occurring solid, liquid , or gaseous material in or on the Earth’s crust in such form and amount that economic extraction of a commodity from the concentratio n is currently or potentially feasible. Principal economic sources of REE s include the minerals bastna esite, monazite, and loparite , as well as some surficial clay deposits. Other less conventional potential surficial economic sources may Rare Earth Elements and U.S. Supply Chains https://crsreports.congress.gov include heavy mineral sands, placer deposits, mine waste , and coal. The Department of Energy ( DOE ) plans to collaborate with th e USGS to investigate some of these unconventional REE sources . REE minerals form in atypical g eologic conditions and occur in uncommon minerals in unusual rock types , so potential resources occur in only a few places around the globe . REE minerals typically occur in small concentrations in rocks. A high-grade REE deposit is usually less than 10% by weight concentration . REE minerals may contain multiple REEs bound tightly together in the miner al’s crystal structure