https://crsreports.congress.gov March 6, 2026 Iranian Kurds and Possible Support Following U.S. and Israel i military operations against the Islamic Republic of Iran that commenced on February 28, 2026, press reports citing unnamed sources have stated that the Trump Administration may be considering possible efforts to provide material support to Iranian Kurdish groups to furt her weaken Iran’s regime . President Donald Trump has said he would embrace action by Iranian Kurds, but the Administratio n to date has not confirmed any U.S. support . Any such U.S. or Israeli support for Iranian Kurds , if confirmed, could form part of a broader campaign to decentralize and/or systemically change Iran’s political structure. A number of Iranian Kurdish groups actively oppose the Iranian regime, including s ome based in the neighboring Kurdistan Region of Iraq (KRI) . Iranian state repression and economic marginalization appear to have prevented Iranian Kurd s from mounting serious resistance to the Islamic Republic to date . Congress may seek clarity from Administrati on officials about any possible efforts, and evaluate potential plans, costs, benefits, and outcomes. Reportedly, U.S. and Israeli strikes have targeted Iranian military and intelligence facilities in Kurdish areas of northwest Iran (known in Kurdish as Rojhelat ). Apparent Iranian attacks have struck some locations associated with Iranian Kurdish opposition groups in the KRI . Iraq’s Kurdistan Regional Government and the national government of Iraq have both issued statements denying their involvement with or support of a ny potential cross - border incursion by KRI -based Iranian Kurds . Figure 1. Kurds in the Middle East Source: CRS, based on open source material from the Central Intelligence Agency and the Washington Post . Attempts to weaken or overthrow a foreign government via support to a geographically peripheral group that differs ethnically or religiously from the regime ’s leading figures may find points of comparison and contrast with : • Afghanistan and t he 2001 defeat of the Sunni Islamist , ethnic Pashtun -dominated Taliban regime by the Northern Alliance (led mainly by a Sunni -Shia mix of ethnic Tajiks, Uzbeks , and Hazaras) , with U.S. and allied air and special operations forces support . The Taliban returned to power in 2021 after an insurgen cy. • Syria and e fforts after 2011 by the United States and other Western countries , Turkey, and Arab Gulf states to support various groups in Syria, whether against Bashar Al Asad’s Alawite -led regime or against the Islamic State (IS, alt. ISIS) organizatio n. A Turkey -backed Syrian Sunni Islamist group deposed Asad in 2024 , and has clashed since 2025 with Kurds who were U.S. anti - IS partners, as well as Alawite s and Druze. Unseating or irreversibly weakening the Islamic Republic could prove to be a formidable task . The Islamic Republic has survived external and internal challenges for 47 years . It has had access to the proceeds of vast hydrocarbon resources; it developed and frequently used a repressive apparatus; its security personnel have