source posits that KRI -based Iranian Kurdish factions , taken together, have around 2,500 fighters . Another asserts that the groups may have sent hundreds into Iran in recent weeks. Issues for Congress Strategy and political -military plans, authorizations , and appropriations. Members may seek information , conduct fact -finding, and consult with the Administration on U.S. goals and plans . They may assess how possible support for or partnership with Kurd ish groups might affect U.S. interests and regional security. Members may examine questions related to (1) protec ting any U.S. or partner forces; (2) formulating logistical and supply arrangements; (3) considering the effects on U.S. partners in Iraq and Turkey; (4) coord inating with other Iranian substate actors who may have differing views on mobilizing minorities in Iran; (5) preparing for tactics (including insurgency) that may be employed by regime elements; and (6) avoid ing, preventing, or responding to human rights violations. Congress could mandate, permit , condition, or prohibit U.S. military or intelligence support , as well as equipment and funding for —and vetting and training of —partner forces . Tools available to Congress include authorizations of military force , and authorizations and appropriations of a id. Effects on regional actors . Possible e fforts to partner with Iranian Kurds could result in prolonged U.S. -Israel -Iran military action in KRI areas with potential secur ity, political, and economic consequences for Iraq . Potential U.S.-Israel support for the PJAK , owing to its PKK ties , could have implications for Turkey and Syria. Iranian retaliation would have implications for Arab Gulf states . Jim Zanotti , Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs Clayton Thomas , Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs Christopher M. Blanchard , Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs IF13172 Iranian Kurds and Possible Support https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF13172 · VERSION 1 · NEW Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.