a March 1 interview , the President said that he has agreed to engage remaining Iranian leaders in talks, and he declined to answer a question about possible U.S. support for a popular uprising in Iran. The Future of Iran and the Middle East Region The death of Iran’s Supreme Leader and U.S. and Israeli statements encouraging regime change imply fundamental questions about Iran’s future governance and stability. Following Khamenei’s death, Iranian officials named an interim governing council consisting of President Masoud Pezeshkian, judiciary head Gholamhossein Mohseni Ejei , and Guardian Council member Ayatollah Alireza Arafi . In January 2026, Iranian authorities killed thousands of protestors, demonstrating a willingness to use violence to maintain power. Reports from Iran indicate that the regime has both supporters and opponents within the country’s diverse population of 90 million people. To date, an organized, effective Iran -based opposition movement does not appear to have coalesced, but disruption to the regime’s instruments of control could create opportunities for such a movement. Any post -Khamenei leaders in Iran will face considerable challenges in governing the country after decades of authoritarian rule, ongoing corruption, international sanctions, and conflict. Congress, the President, War Powers, and Oversight The 119th Congress has debated the President’s authority to use force in I ran. The Administration consulted with some congressional leaders prior to the strikes and reportedly notified some ahead of initiating U.S. operations. The War Powers Resolution (WPR), among other measures, requires the President to inform Congress of certain deployments abroad and the “introduction of United States Armed Forces into hostilities,” providing expedited procedures for congressional consideration of authorization or disapproval of such presidential action. Members may consider war powers resolutions in the House (H.Con.Res. 38 ) and Senate (S.J.Res. 104 ) to direct the President to remove U.S. forces from hostilities against Iran unless a declaration of war or authorization to use military force has been enacted . In June 2025, the Senate rejected a discharge motion for a similar resolution ( S.J.Res. 59 ). Outlook Congress may examine U.S. objectives and assess the Administration’s priorities, including how the United States could respond to Iranian concessions or intransigence and the extent of U.S. alignment with Israel and other partners. C ongress may seek information from the Administration and conduct its own fact-finding about plans to secure materials, equipment, and personnel from Iran’s nuclear, missile, and drone programs if state authority there is interrupted or changes. Congress al so may assess what may come next in Iran, including possibilities of revolution or a weakened but reconstituted Islamic Republic. Current operations mark the fifth U.S. military engagement with Iran since the Iran -backed militant group Hamas attacked Israel in October 2023 : U.S. forces defended Israel during Israel’s three conflicts with Iran in April 2024, November 2024 , and June 2025 , and U.S. forces separately struck Iranian nuclear sites in June 2025. In preparation for the current “Operation Epic Fury,” additional U.S. air and naval as sets deployed to the Middle