Under the current Trump Administration, EOIR has focused on hiring temporary IJs as a mechanism for reducing the backlog and widening the pool of potential applicants . In August 2025, EOIR published a final rule, “ Designation of Temporary Immigra tion Judges .” The rule amended 8 C.F.R. §1003.10 (e), which , under a 2014 interim final rule (IFR) , authorized the EOIR Director to hire as temporary IJs former IJs, former members of the Board of Immigr ation Appeals (EOIR’s appellate body) , current or retired EOIR administrative law judges , administrative law judges from other executive branch agencies , and DOJ attorneys with 10 years of experience in immigration law , for renewable six -month terms . The 2014 IFR stated that hiring temporary IJs would “increase the number of ma tters EOIR could bring to a final disposition” by assigning temporary judges to “a discrete category of cases, such as motions and bond proceedings, freeing up permanent immigration judge time to adjudicate more complicated removal cases,” but not ed that t he rule would not “limit the assignment of temporary immigration judges in the type of cases they may adjudicate .” As amended by the August 2025 rule, 8 C.F.R. §1003.10(e) now authorizes the Director to designate “any attorney” to serve as a temporary immigration judge for six -month renewable terms. In a response to comments on the proposed version of the rule, EOIR stated that the 2014 criteria for temporary IJs “were too narrow and impeded the Department ’s ability to use the [temporary immigration judge] authority to the extent needed. Rather than adopt different benchmarks by regulation, the Department has decided to adop t the same approach that it has long taken for permanent IJs —that is, require by regulation that they be attorneys but leave the specific criteria to internal policy.” The rule also stated, “ The Department does not view its authority to appoint TIJs as a s ubstitute for hiring to fill permanent IJ positions and continues to recruit candidates to fill permanent IJ positions. ” Since then, EOIR has relied on hiring military attorneys as temporary IJs, as authorized by the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) . EOIR requested DOD detail up to 600 lawyers to serve as temporary IJs. In October 2025 , EOIR announced it had appointed 25 temporary IJs assigned to 19 courts ; in February 2026 , EOIR annou nced it had appointed an additional 27 temporary IJs assigned to 18 immigration courts . EOIR’s chan ge in criteria for temporary IJs and hiring military lawyers has been condemned by some stakeholders , including over concerns that such temporary judges may Congressional Research Service 3 IN12664 · VERSION 2 · NEW lack n ecessary immigration expertise . In contrast to that criticism, EOIR states in the rule , “Immigration law experience is not always a strong predictor of success as an IJ, and EOIR has hired i ndividuals from other Federal agencies and Department components without prior