CRS INSIGHT Prepared for Members and Committees of Congress INSIGHT i U.S. and Israeli Military Operations Against Iran: Issues for Congress March 1, 2026 On February 28, 2026, the United States and Israel launched military operations against targets in Iran. The United States and Iran had been engaged in talks over Iran’s nuclear program , amid broader U.S. concerns over Iran’s missile arsenal , terrorism, and support to armed groups. President Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed Iranian citizens directly in their public remarks, encouraging Ira nians to use any opportunities created by the strikes to overthrow the Islamic Republic government, which has ruled Iran since 1979. International reactions have varied, with Russia and China condemning U.S. and Israeli actions, and some European and Arab governments denouncing Iran’s countera ttacks. Iran’s Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and other senior Iranian security leaders have been killed. Iranian officials have announced transitional leadership and continue retaliatory missile and drone attacks on Israel, bases in the region hosting U.S. forces, and targets in Arab Gulf countries and adjacent waters. As of March 1, civili ans reportedly had been killed in Iran, Israel , Kuwait , the United Arab Emirates (UAE ), and Syria , and some U.S. servicemembers had been killed or wounded. The State Department has advised U.S. citizens worldwide to exercise caution and “follow the guidance in the latest [embassy] security alerts.” Strikes by Iran have damaged airports and ports in the region, and regional airspac e closures have caused global disruptions. Apparent Iranian strikes on ships near the Strait of Hormuz highlight threats to that critical chok epoint for transnational shipments of oil and natural gas. Developments in the conflict and global responses present Congress with short - and long -term policy questions across several domains. U.S. Objectives and Plans President Trump has stated a range of U.S. objectives and options since the start of the operations. On February 28, the President said “our objective is to defend the American peo ple by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime.” He reiterated long -standing U.S. insistence that Iran “can never have a nuclear weapon,” and said that U.S. strikes on Iran seek “to destroy their missiles and raze their missile industry to the ground”; “to annihilate their navy”; and, “to ensure that the regime’s terrorist proxies can no longer destabilize the region or the world.” President Trump encouraged the Iranian people to “take Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov IN12662 Congressional Research Service 2 over” their government in the wake of U.S. operations, tell ing members of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, armed forces, and police that they should disarm in order to be “treated fairly with total immunity.” In a March 1 interview , the President said that he has agreed to engage remaining Iranian leaders in talks, and he declined to answer a question about possible U.S. support for a popular uprising in Iran. The Future of Iran and the Middle East Region The death of Iran’s Supreme