capacity to cover a fract ion of them. In additional support to SLTT law enforcement ’s C-UAS activities, the FY2026 NDAA also expanded the purpose areas of two criminal justice grant programs —the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Ass istance Grant (JAG) Program and the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Program —to allow recipients to use funds to purchase and operate approved C -UAS technology. Going Forward Policymakers may no w look to how these expanded SLTT C-UAS authorities are being implemented. In particular, they may examine how DOJ rolls out the C -UAS training and certification and whether SLTT law enforcement are applying or able to be certified. Given that SLTT law en forcement must report when they engage in authorized C -UAS activities, policymakers may opt to evaluate how these expanded authorities are used. Congress might also examine how DOJ and DHS entities continue to conduct C- UAS activities to support state and local agencies in their investigative missions and to secure special events. Congressional Research Service 3 IN12661 · VERSION 1 · NEW Author Information Kristin Finklea Specialist in Domestic Security Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.