U.S. forces defended Israel during Israel’s three conflicts with Iran in April 2024, November 2024 , and June 2025 , and U.S. forces separately struck Iranian nuclear sites in June 2025. In preparation for the current “Operation Epic Fury,” additional U.S. air and naval as sets deployed to the Middle East. The nature and pace of U.S. operations to date suggests that Congress could conduct its own examination of the amounts of munitions and air and missile defense assets that U.S. and partner forces may be expending . Congress may assess related implications for U.S. and partner Congressional Research Service 3 IN12662 · VERSION 2 · NEW stockpiles and global readiness, including through combatant command posture assessments and Administration appropriations requests. U.S. military dep loyments in the Middle East and support to partner governments have sought to deter Iran and assure regional and global actors that Iranian threats could be met with decisive force. Fundamental change to Iran’s government could reduce, increase, or obviate the need for some such deployments and change considerations around some U.S. support to regional partners. Iran’s attacks on Arab Gulf countries may also deepen its isolation. Prolonged U.S. and partner confrontation with Iran, lasting disruptions to Gul f energy flows, commerce, or travel, or Iran’s descent into internal crisis could generate calls or continued, reduced, or expanded U.S. attention and resources. Author Information Clayton Thomas Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs Jeremy M. Sharp Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs Christopher M. Blanchard Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs Jim Zanotti Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.