. Law Enforcement C -UAS Authorities The Preventing Emerging Threats Act of 2018 (Division H of P.L. 115 -254; 6 U.S.C. §124n ) granted DOJ and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) certain C -UAS authorities to protect covered facilities and assets from drones. In doing so, it provi ded them with relief from possible violations of certain federal laws, including those noted above , when taking particular actions, including those related to detecting, identifying, monitoring, and tracking drones; warning the drone operator; and disrupting control of, seizing, and disabling, damaging, or destroying the drone. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fisca l Year 2026 (FY2026 NDAA; P.L. 119 -60) amended 6 U.S.C. §124n to authorize these agencies to take such actions when “necessary to enforce the law, protect the public, or to mitigate a credible threat that an unmanned aircraft system or unmanned aircraft poses to the safety or security of a covered facility or asset.” The 6 U.S.C. §124n authorities were originally limited to a four -year period following enactment of the Preventing Emerging Threats Act of 2018. They have since been extended several times , most recently through the FY2026 NDAA , and are currently set to expire on September 30, 2031. Until recently, Congress had not authorized state, local, tribal, or territorial ( SLTT ) law enforcement to engage in C-UAS activities because of potential violati ons of certain federal statutes . However, in response to growing concerns about law enforcement’s ability and capacity to mitigate potential drone threats, Congress granted SLTT law enforcement and correctional agencies authority through the FY2026 NDAA to engage in actions to mitigate potential UAS threats. This authority is contingent on these entities undergoing DOJ training and certification. DOJ, in consultation with the U.S. Departments of Homeland Security, Defense, and Transportation, is required to develop regulations for this training by June 2026 . DOJ is also to maintain a list of authorized C-UAS systems and technologies that may be used by law enforcement and report on SLTT C -UAS use . Law enforcement entities, including agencies outside of DOJ and DHS a t the federal, state, local, tribal, and territorial levels, that have not completed the training and certification required to engage in C -UAS activities —and even those who have —can still reach out to DOJ or DHS to request assistance when the use of C -UAS measures are being considered to assist with their law enforcement missions or to protect an event. However, in congressional testimony , officials from DOJ’s National Security Division and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) noted that while the FBI is authorized to conduct C -UAS activities at special events, it only has the capacity to cover a fract ion of them. In additional support to SLTT law enforcement ’s C-UAS activities, the FY2026 NDAA also expanded the purpose areas of two criminal justice grant programs —the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Ass istance Grant (JAG) Program and the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Program