month. U.S. officials reportedly said, prior to June 2025, Iran was producing 50 missiles per month. Iran’s ballistic missiles were also the target of Israeli airstrikes during the June 2025 U.S. -Israeli operation. Iran may have made efforts to rebuild its missile inventory. An October 2025 media report , citing European intelligence sources , stated Iran accepted s hipments of chemical precursors for solid rocket motor propellant. In November 2025, the U.S. Treasury Department sanctioned entities and individuals associated with the “procurement of b allistic missile propellant ingredients” on behalf of Iran. Iran’s Nuclear Program Iran for decades has maintained a uranium enrichment program . Uranium enrichment can produce both low-enriched uranium, which can be used in nuclear power reactors, and highly enriched uranium (HEU), which is one of the two types of fissile material used in nuclear weapons. Tehran asserts its enrichment program is only meant to produce fuel for peaceful nuclear applications . Whether the U.S. -Israeli strikes since February 28 have affected Iran’s nuclear facilities is unclear. On March 4, based on analysis of satellite imagery, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) reported “no damage to facilities containing nuclear material in Iran ,” but some damage “at entrances” to Iran’s largest enrichment facility. The IAEA, which implements safeguards on Iran’s nuc lear facilities because the government is a state party to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, withdrew inspectors from Iran in June 2025 after U.S. -Israeli airstrikes on Iranian nuclear facilities, including those associated with Tehran’s enrichment prog ram. The extent to which those strikes impacted Iran’s enrichment program is unclear. The IAEA has not been able to inspect the attacked Iranian nuclear facilities. U.S. government repo rts have provided differing assessments of the June strikes’ impacts. According to the 2025 U.S. National Security Strategy , the strikes “ significantly degraded ” Iran’s nuclear program, while the 2026 National Defense Strategy stated the strikes “ obliterated ” the program.” The U.S. intelligence community has for years assessed that Iran could have the capability to produce nuclear weapons at some poin t, but also that Tehran halted its nuclear weapons program in late 2003 and had not mastered all of the necessary technologies for building such weapons. U.S. intelligence has also consistently assessed that Tehran ha s not reauthorized the develop ment of nuclear weapons. Constraints imposed on Iran’s nuclear program required by the 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action addressed concerns about the speed with which Iran could produce sufficient amount of fissile material for a nuclear weapon. Under these constraints, Tehran would have needed one year to produce enough fissile material for a nuclear weapon. In May 2025 , the Defense Intelligence Agency assessed that Iran then would have needed “probably less than one week” to produce that amount of fissile material. In November 2025, Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Kazem Gharibabadi said Iran was not enrichi ng uranium. On March 2, IAEA Direct or General Rafael Mariano stated the agency ha d no evidence of “a structured