CRS INSIGHT Prepared for Members and Committees of Congress INSIGHT i U.S. Military Operations Against Iran’s Missile and Nuclear Programs March 6, 2026 On February 28, 2026, the United States and Israel launched military operations against Iran . The same day, President Donald J. Trump listed among the operation’s objectives preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, destroying Iran’s missiles, and “ [razing] their missile industry to the ground.” Some Members of Congress have questioned the U.S. military operations in Iran given President Trump’s previous comments that, as a result of the June 2025 U.S. -Israeli strikes, “ Iran’s key nuclear enrichment facilities have been completely and totally obliterated. ” Other Members have supported the President’s action, citing Iran’ s efforts to reconstitute its nuclear program and its ballistic missile capabilities. Iran’s Ballistic Missile and Drone Programs Iran has developed ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, and space -launch vehicles, as well as drones (i.e., unmanned aircraft systems, or UAS). Iran’s ballistic missile inventory has included short - and medium - range ballistic missiles, the largest of which have an estimated range of approximately 2,000 kilometers (1,864 miles), according to a 2020 U.S. government estimate. Iran has also mass -produced the Shahed - 136, a long -range one -way attack drone, and has provided these drones to Russia for use in its war in Ukraine. The 2025 Worldwide Threat Assessment stated, “ Iran has fielded a large quantity of ballistic and cruise missiles a s well as [UAS] that can strike throughout the region and continues efforts to improve their accuracy, lethality, and reliability. ” Since February 28, U.S. and Israeli aircraft have targeted bases and equipment associated with Iran’s ballistic missile program , including missiles Iran may have stored in underground facilities. The effect of the strikes on Ir an’s inventory of ballistic missiles and production capacity is unclear. Following the Israeli and U.S. attacks, Iran has reportedly conducted ballistic missile and drone strikes on U.S. and partner military and civilia n sites in several countries. The size of Iran’s ballistic missile inventory is uncertain. A 2019 Defense Intelligence Agency report described the inventory as “substantial.” In 2022, then -U.S. Central Command Commander General Kenneth McKenzie testified Iran had an inventory of “over 3,000 ballistic missiles of various types.” A 2026 article reported Iran’s inventory at more than 2,000 medium -range ballistic missiles. Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov IN12665 Congressional Research Service 2 Israeli and U.S. officials have stated varying estimates of Iran’s ballistic missile production capacity. On March 1, the Israeli military estimated Iran was producing “dozens of ballistic missiles per month.” On March 2, Secretary of State Marco Rubio said Iran had been producing “over 100” s uch missiles a month. U.S. officials reportedly said, prior to June 2025, Iran was producing 50 missiles per month. Iran’s ballistic missiles were also the target of Israeli airstrikes during the June 2025 U.S. -Israeli operation. Iran may have made efforts to rebuild its missile inventory. An October 2025 media report , citing