would have needed “probably less than one week” to produce that amount of fissile material. In November 2025, Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Kazem Gharibabadi said Iran was not enrichi ng uranium. On March 2, IAEA Direct or General Rafael Mariano stated the agency ha d no evidence of “a structured [Iranian] program to manufacture nuclear weapons.” Considerations for Congress Congress may consider assessing the status and scope of existing reporting requirements on Iran, including of Section 1245 of P.L. 111 -84 (10 U.S.C. §113 note ), which directed the Se cretary of Defense (who is using “Secretary of War” as a “secondary title” under Executive Order 14347 , dated September 5, 2025) t o submit to Congress an “annual report on the military power of Iran.” Congress has modified this Congressional Research Service 3 IN12665 · VERSION 1 · NEW requirement, including by directing the Secretary to provide ad ditional information about Iran’s nuclear and drone programs ( P.L. 119 -60, §1222(b)(4)). Congress may consult that report to determine whether or not it should include additional information. Congress may consider directing the Pentagon to publish an unclassified, public version of the report. Members could ask questions concerning the above topics during threat assessment hearings. Author Information Paul K. Kerr Specialist in Nonproliferation Daniel M. Gettinger Analyst in U.S. Defense Policy Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.