prospective Venezuela military o peration, the OLC also relied on the Supreme Court ’s Ker-Frisbie doctrine in arguing that, even if the operation “were to exceed the President ’s constitutional authority to or der the use of force ,” Maduro would not succeed in challenging his prosecution on those grounds . The federal district court in New York hearing Maduro’s case and, if there is an appeal, the Second Circuit, are not bound by the Eleventh Circuit’s reading of Supreme Court precedent or its analysis of Second Circuit case s regarding an exception to the Ker-Frisbie doctrine . Considerations for Congress The court proceedings and any judicial opinions in United States v. Maduro may have implications for Congress’s legislative and oversight authorities. Accordingly, as it examines developments in the case, Congress may consider a variety of actions. For example, immunity as a head of state or for official acts , which may be asserted by current or former foreign government official s, is governed by federal common law —that is, judge-made —doctrines, under which courts often give some level of deference to the executive branch on the question of whether the official is entitled to immunity. That was also the case with the doctrine governing foreign state immunity in civil cases until 197 6, when Congress enacted the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA) (codified at 28 U.S.C. §§ 1602‒11 ). The FSIA provides courts with a statutorily -delineated set of legal standards to apply in determini ng whether a foreign state is immune from the jurisdiction of U.S. courts in civil cases . Congressional Research Service 5 LSB11401 · VERSION 2 · NEW Congress may consider whether to permit courts to continue applying federal common law to claims of immunity by current or former foreign officials or whether to codify legal standards for courts to apply in assessing such cla ims in civil or criminal case s. Additionally, Congress may engage in oversight and consider how the executive branch is conducting extraterritorial law enforcement activities that result in a seizure. As discussed in its December 2025 opinion on the Venezuela military operation, the O LC maintained that the President ha d unilateral inherent constitutional authority to conduct the Venezuela operation using armed forces and to seize Maduro for law enforcement purposes , even if his seizure violate s international law because “[i]nternational law ... does not restrict the President as a matter of domestic la w ... when it comes to extraordinary rendition .” The OLC further argued that, even if the ope ration exceeded the President’s constitutional authority to order the use of force , that would not impact the ability of the United States to prosecute Maduro because the exercise of jurisdiction by U.S. courts would nevertheless be proper under Supreme Co urt precedent . Congress may consider the implications these claims of authority may have for Congress’s own authority, and whether to seek further information from the executive branch regarding its position on the scope of the