CRS Legal Sidebar Prepared for Members and Committees of Congress Legal Sidebar i Congressional Court Watcher : Circuit Splits from January 2026 February 25, 2026 The U.S. Courts of Appeals for the thirteen “circuits ” issue thousands of precedential decisions each year. Because relatively few of these decisions are ultimately reviewed by the Supreme Court, the U.S. Courts of Appeals are often the last word on consequential legal questions. The federal appellate courts sometimes reach different conclusions on the same issue of federal law, causing a “split” among the circuits that leads to the nonuniform application of federal law among similarly situated litigants. This Legal Sidebar discusses circuit splits that emerged or widened following decisions from January 2026 on matters relevant to Congress. The Sidebar does not address every circuit split that developed or widened during this period . Selected cases typically involve judicial disagreement over the interpretation or validity of federal statutes and regulations, or constitutional issues relevant to Congress ’s lawmak ing and oversight functions. The Sidebar includes only cases where an appellate court ’s controlling opinion recognizes a split among the circuits on a key legal issue resolved in the opinion. This Sidebar refers to each U.S. Court of Appeals by its number or descriptor (e.g., “D.C. Circuit” for “U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit”). Some cases identified in this Sidebar, or the legal questions they address, are examined in other CRS general distribution products. Members of Congress and congressional staff may click here to subscribe to the CRS Legal Update and receive regular notifications of new products and upcoming seminars by CRS attorneys. • Commerce: In consolidated cases, the Ninth Circuit rejected challenges to residency requireme nts in cannabis dispensary licensing schemes in Washington State and the City of Sacramento, California. Both California and Washington state laws permit marijuana sales for recreational and medicinal use, and the challenged licensing schemes allow only state or city residents to hold dispensary licenses. Plaintiffs argued these requirements discriminated against out -of-state businesses in violation of the dormant C ommerce Clause , a judicial doctrine that construes the Commerce Clause to prohibit state laws that unduly restrict interstate commerce , even in the absence of federal legislation . Observing that the Supreme Court has urged caution in the doctrine’s applica tion, the Ninth Circuit held that it did not apply to the challenged residency requirements because medical and recreational marijuana remain illegal under federal law . As such, according to the court, Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov LSB11399 Congressional Research Service 2 the challenged laws align ed with Congress’s efforts to eliminate interstate drug markets. The Ninth Circuit’s conclusion diverges from the First and Second Circuits, which have held that the dormant Commerce Clause applies to state econom ic restrictions even if the market is unlawful under federal law (Peridot Tree WA, Inc. v. Washington State Liquor & Cannabis Control Bd. ). • Criminal Law & Procedure: The Third Circuit held that a criminal defendant’s bare, nonspecific motion for