that the dormant Commerce Clause applies to state econom ic restrictions even if the market is unlawful under federal law (Peridot Tree WA, Inc. v. Washington State Liquor & Cannabis Control Bd. ). • Criminal Law & Procedure: The Third Circuit held that a criminal defendant’s bare, nonspecific motion for acquittal under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 29 did not preserve specific arguments for appellate review regarding whether the prosecution presented sufficient evidence to sustain his convictions. The circuit panel observed that its approach diverges from the D.C. , First, Second , Sixth , Seventh , and Ninth Circuits, which recognize that a broadly stated Rule 29 motion preserves such arguments on appeal. Because the Third Circuit concluded that the defendant’s specific sufficiency -of- the-evidence claims were not preserved on appeal and therefore were not subject to de novo review, the court instead reviewed the defendant ’s insufficiency claims under the stringent plain -error standard and found no reversible error ( United States v. Abrams ). • Firearms: A Fifth Circuit panel vacated a criminal defendant ’s conv iction under 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1) for possessing a firearm as a convicted felon, holding that the statute violated the Second Amendment as applied to the defendant based on his prior state-law conviction for simple possession of methamphetamine. The pa nel concluded that permanently prohibiting firearm possession based on this defendant ’s illegal possession of methamphetamine was inconsistent with the Second Amendment because the prohibition was not sufficiently analogous to historical restrictions on firearm possession by dangerous or intoxicated individuals. The court acknowledged widespread disagreement among the appellate courts over how to apply the Supreme Court’s history - based framework set forth in New York State Rifle & Pistol Association v. Bruen to assess the compatibility of firearm restrictions with the Second Amendment, including with respect to Section 922(g)(1). The panel observed that an earlier Fifth Circuit opinion identified the Second , Fourth , Eighth , Ninth , Tenth , and Eleventh Circuits as upholding the constitutionality of Section 922(g)(1) as applied to all felons. The panel also recognized disagreement among those courts t hat hold that a criminal defendant’s dangerousness must be assessed to determine whether he may, consistent with the Second Amendment, be permanently disarmed under Section 922(g)(1 ). The Third and Sixth Circuits consider bo th felony and misdemeanor histories in assessing dangerousness, while the Fifth Circuit’s analysis of dangerousness focuse s exclusively on the predicate felony convictions giving rise to the Section 922(g)(1) violation (United States v. Hembree ). • Firearms: A divided Ninth Circuit panel held that California’s ban on open carry of firearms in urban areas violate d the Second Amendment, while its licensing regime for rural areas —requi ring permits for individuals expressing a general desire for self - defense —survive d a facial constitutional challenge. The majority emphasized that open carry was historically the default lawful method of firearm carriage, with no evidence of outright bans at the time of the Founding. Applying the