the exercise of jurisdiction by U.S. courts would nevertheless be proper under Supreme Co urt precedent . Congress may consider the implications these claims of authority may have for Congress’s own authority, and whether to seek further information from the executive branch regarding its position on the scope of the President’s Article II autho rity to conduct , without congressional authorization , military operations that it claims are in support of law enforcement. In addition to oversight measures , Congress may consider legislation similar to what was introduced in the 110 th Congress that would restrict the President’s authority to seize individuals abroa d. There are also some treaties where the Senate has specified in its resolutions consenting to the President’s ratification that certain treaty provisions are not self -executing , and Congress has enacted legislation making aspects of treaties or customary international law enforceable by U.S. courts. While any legislation impacting courts’ jurisdiction may change any common -law rules made by courts, it would have to be consistent with any requirements that courts determine to be constitutionally based . Author Information Karen Sokol Legislative Attorney Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.