the President’s inherent authority under Article II of the Constitution and its potential implications for congressional authority , see CRS Report R48524, Congress and the Scope of the President’ s Article II Foreign Policy Authorities , by Karen Sokol .) The district court also rejected Noriega’s argument that his seizure by U.S. forces was so “shocking to the conscience” as to amount to a violation o f his Fifth Amendment right to substantive due process and thus required dismissal , a ruling upheld by the Eleventh Circuit on appeal. In upholding the district’s court’s conclusion, the Eleventh Circuit explained that under the Supreme Court’s Ker-Frisbie doctrine —which is named after two of the Court’s cases —the way in which a defendant was brought before a court does not impact the court’s jurisdic tion over the defendant. In both cases, the Supreme Court held that “ the power of a court to try a person for crime is not impaired by the fact that he had been brought within the court ’s jurisdiction by reason of a forcible abduction. ” The Eleventh Circuit rejected Noriega’s argument that his seizure fell within an exception to the Ker- Frisbie doctrine recognized by the Second Circuit that permits defendant s to defeat a court’s jurisdiction on grounds of a due process violation by establishing that their seizure involved not merely a “simply illegal” abduction , but rather “cruel, inhuman and outrageous treatment .” Without deciding whether it also recognized such an exception, the Eleventh Circuit determined that Noriega’s seizure did not meet that standard because he “has not al leged that the government mistreated him personally ,” and “whatever harm Panamanian civilians suffered during the armed conflict that preceded Noriega ’s arrest cannot support a due process claim .” The Eleventh Circuit also relied on Supreme Court caselaw in rejecting Noriega’s claim that he should not have been tried because his seizure violated the extradition treaty between the United States and Panama. In United States v. Alvarez -Machain , the Supreme Court held that, because the United States’ extradition treaty with Mexico did not prohibit forcible abductions, the Ker-Frisbie doctrine governed , and the court had jurisdiction to try the defendant notwithstanding that he was forcibly abducted from Mexico by U. S. law enforcement officials . According to the Eleventh Circuit, Noriega similarly failed to “demonstrate , by reference to the express language of a treaty and/or the established practice thereunder, that the United States affirmatively agre ed not to seize foreign nationals from the territory of its treaty partners, ” and accordingly the district court’s exercise of jurisdiction over him was proper under the Ker-Frisbie rule. In its December 2025 opinion on the prospective Venezuela military o peration, the OLC also relied on the Supreme Court ’s Ker-Frisbie doctrine in arguing that, even if the operation “were to exceed the President ’s constitutional authority to or der the use of force ,” Maduro would not succeed in challenging his prosecution on those grounds