CRS Legal Sidebar Prepared for Members and Committees of Congress Legal Sidebar i The United States’ Prosecution of Nicolás Maduro Moros: United States v. Maduro March 4, 2026 Following the seizure of Nicolás Maduro Moros (Maduro) by U.S. armed forces in Caracas, Venezuela, on January 3, 2026, a superseding indictment charging him and other defendants with narco -terrorism, narcotics, and weapons offenses was unsealed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York ( SDNY ). The January 2026 indictment supersedes an indictment filed against Maduro in the SDNY in March 2020. This Legal Sidebar describes the charges in the January 2026 indictment and analy zes potentially relevant precedent that may govern this case , including the judicial opinions arising out of the United States’ prosecution of Pana ma’s military leader Manuel Noriega for drug trafficking offenses in the 1990s. This Sidebar then discusses some considerations for Congress. The Charges in the January 2026 Indictment The January 2026 indictment names Maduro and five other defendants: Cilia Adela Flores de Maduro (Maduro’s wife), Diosdado Cabello Rondon and Ramon Rodriguez Chacin (current and former high - ranking Venezuelan gove rnment officials and politicians), Nicolás Ernesto Maduro Guerra (Maduro’s son), and Hector Rusthenford Guerrero Flores (identified in the indictment as the alleged leader of Tren de Aragua (TdA), a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO) as designated by the State Department under 8 U.S.C. § 1189 in February 2025 ). The indictment charges Maduro, Rondon, and Chacin with narco - terrorism conspiracy in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 960a , and all five defendants are charged with conspiracy to import cocaine into the United States and weapons possession offenses. The first count alleges narco -terrorism conspiracy in violation of 21 U.S.C. § 960a, which prohibits engaging in certain drug trafficking offenses , or attempting or conspiring to do so, “ knowing or intending to provide, directly or indirectly, anything of pecuniary value to any person or organizatio n that has engaged or engages in terrorist activity ... or terrorism .” The indictment alleges that Maduro and the two Venezuelan government officials named as defendants conspired to distribute and possessed with intent to distribute cocaine to support TdA and other organizations designated as FTOs by the State Department under 8 U.S.C. § 1189 . The second count is conspiracy to import cocaine into the United States in violat ion of 21 U.S.C. §§ 952(a) (importin g controlled substances in Schedule I or II or narcotic drugs in Schedule III, IV or V of Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov LSB11401 Congressional Research Service 2 the Controlled Substances Act ); 959(a) (manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance for the purpose of unlawful importation) ; 959(c) (possession, manufacture, or distribution of a controlled substance by a person on board an aircraft) ; 960(a)(1) (knowing or intentional import or export of a controlled substance) ; 960(a)(3) (manufacture, possession with intent to distribute , or distribut ion of a controlled substance) ; 960(b)(1)(B) (certain unlawful acts involving threshold