(possession, manufacture, or distribution of a controlled substance by a person on board an aircraft) ; 960(a)(1) (knowing or intentional import or export of a controlled substance) ; 960(a)(3) (manufacture, possession with intent to distribute , or distribut ion of a controlled substance) ; 960(b)(1)(B) (certain unlawful acts involving threshold amounts of cocaine ); and 963 (conspiracy ). The specific acts that the indictment alleges the defendants took in furtherance of the narco -terrorism and drug trafficking conspiracies include providing drug traffickers with diplomatic passports , private planes under diplomatic cover , and armed military escorts . The third count alleges that the defendants used and carried machineguns and destructi ve devices in furtherance of drug trafficking crimes that are prosecutable in a U.S. court , in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 924(c)(1)(A) and (c)(1)(B)(ii) . The fourth count also alleges that the defendants conspired to possess machineguns and dest ructive devices in furtherance of and in relation to the narcotics offenses alleged in counts one and two, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 924(c)(1)(A) and (c)(1)(B)(ii). Relevant Historical Precedent As this case progresses, there are a number of issues that may arise, including whether the indictment should be dismissed based on issues regarding immunity from prosecution or regarding the seizure and transfer of Maduro and his wife to the United States. The case against f ormer military leader Manuel Noriega raised similar issues. The SDNY may consider the judicial opinions that arose out of Noriega’s case—which was heard in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida and appeal ed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit (Eleventh Circuit) —to be persuasive, but those opinions typically are not considered binding or controlling in other federal circuits such as the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Second Circuit) , which has appellate jurisdiction over the SDNY . Head-of-state Immunity Head -of-state immunity is a status -based immunity doctrine that prohibits c riminal and civil cases against current heads of state in U.S. courts —that is, immunity applies only while the defendant is in office . Courts have often deferred to the executive branch to determine whether a defendant is a head of state, as the district and appellate courts did in the Noriega case . The district court concluded that Noriega had “never be en recognized as Panama’s Head of State either under the Panamanian Constitution or by the United States, ” and rejected Noriega’s claims that he was entitled to immunity as the de facto rule r of Panama. The Eleventh Circuit affirmed, conclud ing with deference to the executive branch that Noriega was not entitled to h ead-of-state immunity . The January 2026 indictment against Maduro states that he “was previously the Presi dent of Venezuela, and is now, having remained in power despite losses in recent elections, the de facto but illegitimate ruler of the country .” Immunity for Official Acts In contrast to head -of-state immunity, immunity for official