January 2026 indictment against Maduro states that he “was previously the Presi dent of Venezuela, and is now, having remained in power despite losses in recent elections, the de facto but illegitimate ruler of the country .” Immunity for Official Acts In contrast to head -of-state immunity, immunity for official acts is a conduct -based doctrine rather than a status -based one —meaning it may protect defendants from prosecution for past official acts even if they do not currently hold a head -of-state or other governmental office . In determining whether defendants are entitled to this type immunity, courts assess whether the “claims arise [] out of their official acts while in office,” or instead out of “ private acts where the officer purports to act as an individual and not as an official .” In determining whether a current or former official is entitled to conduct -based immunity, courts may give some deference to the executive branch’s position. Unlike status -based head -of-state immunity, which precludes courts’ exercise of jurisdiction over a defendant entirely, this c onduct -based immunity Congressional Research Service 3 doctrine applies only to those acts deemed to be “official,” and the case may proceed with respect to any acts that a court determines to have been undertaken in a private capacity. In rejecting an argument made by Noriega based on a doctrine similar to immunity for official acts , the district court explained that “[t]he inquiry is not whether Noriega used his official position to engage in the challenged acts, but whether those acts were taken on behalf of Noriega instead of Panama. ” Additionally, courts have suggested that some criminal acts, “such as drug possession or fraud ,” are not normally “attributable to the state” and therefore will be treated as private acts for which no immunity is available. Challenges Regarding the Legality of the Seizure Noriega argued that his seizure and transfer to the United States as part of the U.S. military invasion of Panama merited dismissal of the charges lodged against him because these actions violated international law and his right to substantive due process under the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. With respect to international law , Noriega argued that his seizure violated various international treaties and principles of customary international law, including Article 2(4) of the United Nations (U.N.) Charter , a Senate -approved treaty that prohibits the threat or use of force against the sovereign territory of another country without its consent , except in the limited circumstances of self-defense against an armed attack or U.N. Security Council authorization . To dismiss the case, the district court required Noriega to establish that the treaty in question was “self -executing in the sense that it confers individual rights upon citizens of the signatory nations” and that the terms of the treaty contain “a self -imposed limitation on the jurisdiction of the United States and hence on its courts.” A few months before U.S. armed forces invaded Panama and seized