-executing in the sense that it confers individual rights upon citizens of the signatory nations” and that the terms of the treaty contain “a self -imposed limitation on the jurisdiction of the United States and hence on its courts.” A few months before U.S. armed forces invaded Panama and seized Noriega in December 1989 , the Department of Justice’s Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) issued an opinion in June 1989 arguing that the President has “inherent ” constitutional authority to undertake extraterritorial law enforcement activities without congressional authorization , even if those act ivities are contrary to the U.N. Charter or customary international law . (Although OLC opinions are legal arguments and not binding on courts or Congress, the executive branch has historically treated them as internally controlling .) In reaching this conclusion, the OLC pointed out that it did not interpret any statutes as prohibiting the President from conducting law enforcement activities in contravention of customary international law . Along similar lines , the OLC based its conclusion that the President had unilateral constitutional authority to undertake law enforcement actions in violation of the U.N. Charter on the OLC’s determination t hat this treaty is not self-executin g, and accordingly Congress “must execute [it] before it can become a rule” enforceable in U.S. court s. The district court in Noriega’s case did not address the issue regarding the President’s inherent constitutional authority and, instead, determined that the treaties in question did not create, either expressly or impliedly, an enforceable private right of action giving Noriega standing to challenge violations of such treaties. The court further reasoned that Noriega’s claim should be rejected because the court concluded that Supreme Court caselaw has held that “violations of international law alone do not deprive a court of jurisdiction over a defendant in the absence of specific treaty language to that effect.” As a result, the court explained that it was unnecessary to “ reach the question of whether [international law] was violated by the United States military ac tion in Panama .” In a memorandum written on December 23, 2025 , assessing the legality of the United States’ then - proposed military operation in Venezuela, the OLC relied on its 1989 opinio n in arguing that it was “unnecessary to address the issue” of whether the planned operation would compl y with international law because “ [i]nternational law ... does not restr ict the President as a matter of domestic law. ” The OLC further argued that the President had inherent authority under Article II of the Constitution to conduct the military operation in the absence of congressional authorization in order to seize Maduro. (For further Congressional Research Service 4 discussion of the President’s inherent authority under Article II of the Constitution and its potential implications for congressional authority , see CRS Report R48524, Congress and the Scope of the President’ s Article II Foreign Policy Authorities , by Karen Sokol .) The district court also rejected Noriega’s argument that his seizure