rural areas —requi ring permits for individuals expressing a general desire for self - defense —survive d a facial constitutional challenge. The majority emphasized that open carry was historically the default lawful method of firearm carriage, with no evidence of outright bans at the time of the Founding. Applying the history -based framework set forth by the Supreme Court in Bruen to assess a firearms restriction’s compatibility with the Second Amendment, the panel concluded that open carry is clearly protected by the Second Amendment and that California’s urban ban is unconstitutional. The Ninth Circuit criticized the Second Circuit’s approach , which permits the government to ban either open or concealed carry provided that at least one of the tw o form s of public carry remain s available. The Ninth Circuit contended that such reasoning rested on a misreading of Bruen and was inconsistent with the historic al tradition of allowing open Congressional Research Service 3 carry. The panel also upheld California’s rural licensing regime on its face , characterizing Bruen as indicating that licensing schemes a re permissible when , as here, a permit shall be issued when the request is based on a general desire for self -defense ( Baird v. Bonta ). • Immigration: In a per curiam opinion, a divided Third Circuit panel held that a lthough a federal district court retained habeas jurisdiction over an alien detained by the federal government, the court lacked subject ma tter jurisdiction to consider the alien’s claims challenging the lawfulness of his detention and removability. Federal c ourts exercising habeas jurisdi ction typically may review the legality of an individual ’s incarceration. Under 8 U.S.C. § 1252(b)(9) , “[j]udicial review of all questions of law and fact , including interpretation and application of constitutional and statutory provisions, arising from any action taken or proceeding brought to remove an alien from the United States shall be available only” as part of a federal appeals court’s consideration of a petition for review (PFR) of a final removal order. In this case, the government argued that the alien was removable from the United States on foreign policy grounds and for obtaining lawful permanent resident status through fraud or willful misrepresentation , and he was arrested and detained pending removal proceedings. Before those proceedings were completed, the alien sought habeas relief, claiming that his detention and placement in removal proceedings constituted unlawful retaliation for engaging in protected political speech under the First Amendment. The panel majority held that Section 125 2(b)(9) stripped the habeas court of subject matter jurisdiction to consider these claims because they involved legal and factual questions that could ultimately be reviewe d by a federal appeals court considering a PFR. The majority acknowledged that its ruling diverged from recent decisions in similar cases by other courts —including published opinions from the Second Circuit —holding that Section 125 2(b)(9) does not prevent aliens from ch allenging, in habeas proceedings, the underlying basis for their removability and detention prior to the