PFR. The majority acknowledged that its ruling diverged from recent decisions in similar cases by other courts —including published opinions from the Second Circuit —holding that Section 125 2(b)(9) does not prevent aliens from ch allenging, in habeas proceedings, the underlying basis for their removability and detention prior to the issuance of a removal order ( Khalil v. President ). • Immigration: The Fourth Circuit affirmed a defendant’s criminal convictions and sentence for fraudulently preparing immigration visa petitions under the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (V AWA). The petition applications submitted to the government included fraudulent or forged supporting documents, but the defendant had not signed the applications and therefore did not certify under penalty of perjury the ir accuracy. The Fourth Ci rcuit upheld the defendant’s convictions under multiple fraud -related statutes, including paragraph four of 18 U.S.C. § 1546(a) , which imposes criminal penalties on a person who “knowingly make s under oath, or as permitted under penalty of perjury … knowingly subscribe s as true, any false statement with respect to a m aterial fact in any … document required by the immigration laws or regulations prescribed thereunder, or knowingly present s any such … document which contains any such false statement.” Aligning with the Second Circuit but s plitting with the Third Circuit , the pa nel held that the oath requirement in Section 1546(a) applies only to the “knowingly makes” offense listed in that paragraph, and not to other listed offenses including the “knowingly presents” offense with which the defendant was charged ( United States v. Aborisade ). Congressional Research Service 4 Author Information Michael John Garcia Deputy Assistant Director/ALD Congressional Research Service 5 LSB11399 · VERSION 2 · NEW Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.