Statutory Framework for Congressional Management of DOD General and Flag Officers Updated March 5, 2026 Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congres s.gov R44389 Congressional Research Service SUMMARY Statutory Framework for Congressional Management of DOD Gener al and Flag Officers In the exercise of its constitutional responsibilities to shape and oversee the U.S. Armed Forces, Congress has enacted an array of laws that govern foundational aspects of military officer personnel managemen t, including appointments, assignments, grade structure , promotions, and separations. Some of these laws are directed specifically at the most senior military officers, known as general and flag officers (GFOs). Congress periodically reviews these laws and considers amending them. Areas of congressional interest have included duties and grades of certain GFO positions, the number of GFOs, the proportion of GFOs to the total force, and compensation levels of GFOs. Congress and the executive branch have used statutory aut hority to specify the grade and duties of certain GFO positions and affect the number of GFOs. As of September 30, 2026, there were 848 active -duty GFOs subject to statutory caps, 9 less than the maximum of 857 authorized by law. The current number is low er for the post -Cold War era and substantially lower than the number of GFOs in the 1960s -1980s, when the Armed Forces were much larger in size than they are today. The GFO corps has increased as a percentage of the total force over the past five decades. I n 1965, GFOs made up about one -twentieth of one percent (0.048%) of the total force, while in 2024, they made up about one -fifteenth of one percent (0.067%) of the total force, indicating that the share of the total force made up of GFOs has increased by 40%. Some argue that this increased proportion of GFOs is excessive and contributes to more bureaucratic decisionmaking processes. Others counter that the increased proportion is linked to the military’s emphasis on joint and coalition operation s; core org anizational requirements; management, budgeting, and program requirements; and the employment of automated, highly lethal, and destructive weapons systems that may require fewer personnel coupled with more discernment in employment of those weapons . Compe nsation for GFOs varies based on pay grade and years of service . Regular military compensation (RMC) includes basic pay, basic allowance for housing, basic allowance for subsistence, and the federal tax advantage associated with allowances, which are exempt from federal income tax . In 202 6, the lowest -ranking GFOs may expect to make about $272,802 per year in RMC, while the highest -ranking GFOs may expect to make about $ 296,539 per year. This report provides an overview of Congress’s framework for man aging active -duty GFOs in the U.S. Armed Forces — including duties, statutory controls, authorizations, compensation, and historical trends in the proportion of GFOs relative to the total force. National Guard and Reserve GFOs are not addressed in this repor t, except in cases in which they serve on active duty in