and §604 General or Admiral • 10 U.S.C. §604 refers to “commander of a combatant command” positions as “Joint 4-star officer positions .” • Joint specialty under Section 661 of Title 10; has completed a tour of duty in a joint duty assignment as a general or flag officer . • Giving authoritative direction to subordinate commands and forces necessary to carry out missions assigned to the command, including authoritative direction over all aspects of military operations , joint training, and logistics. • Prescribing the chain of command to the command s and forces within the command. Not specified Normally three years ; DOD policy requires two years (see footnote footnote 14). CRS -20 Position /Service Statute Grade and Requirements Selected Duties, Responsibilities, or Functions Appointment Du ration • Organizing commands and forces within that command as necessa ry to carry out missions assigned to the command. • Employing forces within that command as necessary to carry out m issions assigned to the command. • Assigning command func tions to subordinate commanders. • Coordinating and approving those aspects of administration and support (including control of resources and equipment, internal organization, and training) and discipline necessary to carry out missions assigned to the command. • Exercising the authority with respect to selecting subordinate commanders , selecting combatant command staff, suspending subordinates, and convening courts -martial . Commander, Special Operations Command /Joint 10 U.S.C. §167 in addition to §164 General or Admiral • No requirements beyond those specified in §164. • Developing strategy, doctrine, and tactics [related to special operations activities]. • Preparing and submitting to the Secretary of Defense program recommendations and budget proposals for special operations forces and for other forces assigned to Not specified CRS -21 Position /Service Statute Grade and Requirements Selected Duties, Responsibilities, or Functions Appointment Du ration the special operations command. • Training assigned forces. • Conducting specialized courses of instruction for commissioned and noncommissioned officers. • Validating requirements. • Establishing priorities for requirements. • Ensuring the interoperability of equipment and forces. • Ensuring the combat readiness of forces assigned to the special operations command. • Monitoring the preparedness to carry out assigned missions of special operations forces assigned to unified combatant commands other than the special operations command. • Managing the development and acquisition of special - operations equipment. Commander , Cyber Command /Joint 10 U.S.C. §167b in addition to §164 General or Admiral • No requirements specified beyond those specified in §164. • Developing strategy, doctrine, and tactics [ related to cyber operations activities ]. • Preparing and submitting to the Secretary of Defense program recommendations and budget proposals for cyber operations forces and for other forces assigned to the cyber command. Not specified CRS -22 Position /Service Statute Grade and Requirements Selected Duties, Responsibilities, or Functions Appointment Du ration • Exercising authority, direction, and control over the expenditure of funds for forces assigned directly to the cyber command, and for cyber operations forces assigned to unified combatant commands other than the cyber command.