In matters relating to global military strategic and operational integration, providing adv ice to the President and the Secretary on ongoing military operations , and advising the Secretary on the allocation and transfer of forces among geographic and functional combatant commands, as necessary, to address transregional, multidomain, and multifun ctional threats. Four years (except in time of war) Term begins on October 1 of an odd-numbered year . CRS -18 Position /Service Statute Grade and Requirements Selected Duties, Responsibilities, or Functions Appointment Du ration • In matters related to comprehensive joint readiness, evaluating the overall preparedness of the joint force to perform the responsibilities of that force under national defense strategies and to respond to significant contingencies worldwi de. • In matters relating to joint capability development, identifying new joint military capabilities based on advances in technology and concepts of operation needed to maintain the technological and operational superiority of the Armed Forces, and recomme nding investments and experiments in such capabilities to the Secretary. • In matters relating to joint force development activities, developing doctrine for the joint employment of the Armed Forces, and formulating policies and technical standards, and exec uting actions, for the joint training of the Armed Forces. Service Chiefs /Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force, and Space Force 10 U.S.C. §7033 (for other Service Chief s, see 10 U.S.C. §§8043, 8033, 9033, and 9082) General or Admiral • “Significant experience in joint duty assignments; and ... one full tour of duty in a joint duty assignment ... as a general officer. ” Varies by Service. For the Chief of Staff of the Army: • Presiding over the Army Staff. Four years , term extendable up to four years during time of war or during a national emergency declared by Congress. Serves at the pleasure of the President . CRS -19 Position /Service Statute Grade and Requirements Selected Duties, Responsibilities, or Functions Appointment Du ration The President may waive the above if the President determines such action is necessary in the national interest. • Transmitting the plans and recommendations of the Army Staff to the Secretary and advising the Secretary about such plans and recommendations. • After approval of the plans or recommendations of the Army Staff by the Secretary, acting as the agent of the Sec retary in carrying them into effect. • Exercising supervision, consistent with the authority assigned to commanders of unified or specified combatant commands under Chapter 6 of this title, over such members and organizations of the Army as the Secretary det ermines . • Performing duties as prescribed for members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Commander of a combatant command, Commander, United States Forces, Korea /Joint 10 U.S.C. §164 and §604 General or Admiral • 10 U.S.C. §604 refers to “commander of a combatant command” positions as “Joint 4-star officer positions .” • Joint specialty under Section 661 of Title 10; has completed a tour of duty in a joint duty assignment as a general or flag officer .