with the Air Force strength at approximately 319,000 airmen as of December 31, 2025.25 Given the organizational structure and “posture” of the Armed Forces — some of which is re quired by law —the amount of management “overhead” does not necessarily change in direct proportion to the size of the force. • Technological changes . A third justification for increased GFO ratios is that technological advances have changed the way the United States fights its wars. Modern weapons systems, much more powerful and accurate than their predecessors, require fewer personnel to deliver great er firepower. Thus, while the number of personnel a GFO commands may decline as more sophisticated equipment is substituted for manpower, the lethality of those forces may increase. From this perspective, the lethality of the weapons systems, rather than t he number of people, provides the justification for an organization to be led by a very senior military officer. Additionally, the advent and development of new domains of warfare —such as space and cyber —has led to the creation of new organizations (e.g., U.S. Space Force , U.S. Cyber Command ) to exploit advantages and defend against vulnerabilities in those environments , with additional senior positions. • Resource Management Changes. DOD budget authority and complexity have generally increased over time, as have expectations of their management . (DOD budget authority is depicted in Figure 3.) As with the increased sophistication of operation s and weaponry, responsibility for budgets that amount to over one -half of federal discretionary spending may require more senior -level management. 25 Department of Defense Active Duty Military Personnel by Rank/Grade and Service, December 31, 2025 . Statutory Framework for Congressional Management of DOD General and Flag Officers Congressional Research Service 11 Figure 3. Department of Defense Budget Authority, by Public Law Title FY1948 -FY202 8 In billions of constant FY2025 dollars Sources: FY2025 Budget Request: Department of Defense -Military (Subfunction 051), by Cameron M. Keys. CRS analysis of Department of Defense, National Defense Budget Estimates for FY2025, April 2024, Table 6 -8. Note: Figures for FY2026 -FY2029 are projections. Trans lating defense authorization laws governing policy and appropriations laws for defense and military construction into a Future Years Defense Program that illustrates policy and plans five years into the future and “record[s] and display[s] resource decisio ns,” may require the seniority of a GFO.26 Justification for the Statutory Status Quo As noted above, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 ( FY2024 NDAA ; P.L. 118 -31) realized a congressionally directed reduction of GFO billets, achieved through intensive study and oversight.27 The law does not prohibit the executive bran ch from further reductions , and the executive branch has initiated such a reduction . Secretary of Defense Peter B. Hegseth , who is using “Secretary of War” as a “secondary title” under Executive Order 14347 dated September 5, 2025, released a memorandum on May 5, 2025, directing the following general and flag officer reductions . • A minimum 20% reduction of