Navy,” and “to make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces.”1 It also provides the Senate the authority to provide “Advice and Consent” on presidential nominations of “all other Officers of the United States,” including military officers.2 On the basis of its constitutional authority, Congress has passed laws that govern important aspects of military officer personnel management, including appointments, assignments, grade structure, promotions, and separations. The most senior officers in the Army, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force are called general officers. The most senior officers in the Navy are called flag officers.3 The phrase “general and flag officers,” or “GFOs,” refers to all officers in pay grades O -7 through O -10 and includ e all one-, two -, three -, and four -star officers. At the highest level, O -10, GFOs hold the most visible and important military positions in the Department of Defense (DOD), which is “using a secondary Department of War desi gnation,” under Executive Order 14347 dated September 5, 2025 , including the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the chiefs of the five military services, Chief of the National Guard Bureau, and the combatant commanders. At the lowest level, O -7, they hold positions that span an array of roles, including commanders, deputy commanders, and key staff roles in defense and service -level departments and agencies . Congress has developed a statutory framework applicable to GFOs and considers amendments to these laws as it deems appropriate. Congress also periodically reviews the number, duties, and compensation of GFOs. References in thi s report to specific grades (ranks) within the GFO corps use the appropriate capitalized title, insignia, or paygrade as indicated in Table 1. T able 1. Grade, Insignia, and Paygrade of General and Flag Officers Grade (Army, Air Force, Marine Corps and Space Force) Grade (Navy) Insignia Paygrade General Admiral four-stars ★★★★ 0-10 Lieutenant General Vice Admiral three -stars ★★★ 0-9 Major General Rear Admiral two-stars ★★ 0-8 Brigadier General Rear Admiral (Lower Half) one-star ★ 0-7 Source: Grades from 10 U.S.C. §741 ; insignias from Department of Defense, available at https://dod.defense.gov/ About/ Insignias/ Officers/ ; paygrades from 37 U.S.C. §201. 1 U.S. Constitution Article I, Section 8. 2 Article II, Section 2 . This section also provides that “the Congress may by Law vest the Appointment of such inferior Officers, as they think proper, in the President alone, in the Courts of Law, or in the Heads of Departments.” 3 The Coast Guard uses the same rank structure as the Navy. While the Coast Guard is o ne of the Armed Forces, it is not covered in this report, as it normally operates under different statutory authority (Title 14) than the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force , and Space Force (Title 10). Statutory Framework for Congressional Management of DOD General and Flag Officers Congressional Research Service 2 The GFO Population T able 2. Number of Active -Duty General and Flag Officers As of September 30,