a reduction . Secretary of Defense Peter B. Hegseth , who is using “Secretary of War” as a “secondary title” under Executive Order 14347 dated September 5, 2025, released a memorandum on May 5, 2025, directing the following general and flag officer reductions . • A minimum 20% reduction of 4 -star positions across the Active Component; • A minimum 20% reduction of general officers in the National Guard; and 26 For more information on the Future Years Defense Program , see CRS In Focus IF10831, Defense Primer: Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) , by Brendan W. McGarry and Alexandra G. Neenan . 27 See footnote 13 and see footnote 14. See also H.Rept. 114 -840, p. 1013. A copy of the Track Four Efficiency Initiatives Decisions memo by Secretary Gates is available at https://www.acq.osd.mil/ asda/ dpc/ce/pc/docs/ archive/ 3- 14-2011_Track_Four_Efficiency_Initiatives_Decisions.pdf . Statutory Framework for Congressional Management of DOD General and Flag Officers Congressional Research Service 12 • An additional minimum 10% reductio n in general and flag officers with the realignment of the Unified Command Plan.28 The final list of “redundant” positions is yet to be released . Therefore, Congress may choose whether or not to await further legislati ve action and review any future execu tive branch decisions. GFO Assignments Assignment to any role in the uniformed military services is subject to controls provided in statutes, DOD regulations, and military department regulations. Congress has the constitutional power to make the laws that govern the Armed Forces.29 In carrying out these laws, the President, as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces ( U.S. Constitution, Article 2, Section II ), exercises command authority, which extends to the most junior leader of any unit. In statute, the Defense Secretary has “authority, direction, and control” over the Defense Department.30 The duty assignment of any servicemember, including leadership and command positions at all levels, depends on such delegated command authority. GFOs are subject to the same command au thority and to certain statutes and regulations that apply to their nomination for promotion and service in certain assignments. For joint duty assignments (JDAs), including as Combatant Commanders, other than those in statute, “Most GFO JDAs are identifie d and managed as 2 -year assignments. The tour length for Combatant Commanders and Defense Agency directors is 3 years. Acquisition billets are governed by additional legislation that may require tour lengths of 3 or 4 years.”31 Services have their own specific regulations that apply only to GFOs in service -controlled billets. Terminology in describing assignment actions , including GFOs, can be imprecise. The terms fire, sack, axe, cashier , relieve , reassign , and dismiss are used as synonyms in various press articles and oral reporting to describe the dynamic process of a uniformed officer’s change of position. The latter three terms figure in statute and in DOD issuances. Dismissal is the most severe because it expels the officer from the service altogether as punishment for misconduct. Such authority has limits in statute, especially regarding dismissal,