GFOs in joint positions from the limitations of Section 526(a). The FY2026 NDAA did not specify any changes to the minimum number of joint GFOs . Unless the Secretary of Defense determines that a lower number is in the best interest of the department, the GFOs s erving in the 232 authorized joint positions “shall be ” at least those illustrated in Figure 1 .17 Figure 1. Minimum Number of GFOs for Joint Positions Source: CRS analysis of 10 U.S.C. §526(b)(2). Note: 10 U.S.C. §526 allocates only minimum position s per service , not all positions . between certain positions for up to 60 days. The Attending Physician of Congress is counted in addition to the number otherwise permitted for the officers ’ armed force in grades above O -7. Certain reserve component GFOs serving on active duty for limited periods of time are also excluded; see 10 U.S.C. §§525 (d) -(g) and 526(c) -(g). 17 10 U.S.C. §526(b)(2) . Statutory Framework for Congressional Management of DOD General and Flag Officers Congressional Research Service 6 Figure 2. GFO Authorizations by Service Source: CRS analysis of 10 U.S.C. §§525 and 526. Note: 10 U.S.C. §526 allocates minimum positions per service within the total of joint assignments . Percentages in the graph illustrate portion of GFOs by service within the entire GFO population. Percentages are rounded and may not sum . Presidential Determination for Three -Star and Four -Star Positions Section 601 o f Title 10 of the U.S. Code provides that “[t]he President may designate positions of importance and responsibility to carry the grade of general or admiral or lieutenant general or vice admiral .... An officer assigned to any such position has the grade sp ecified for that position if he is appointed to that grade by the President , by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.” Thus, except for those so designated in statute, all three -star and four -star positions are to be designated as such by the Pres ident. Congress may review the rationale for this designation as part of its oversight function . The Senate retains the power to confirm or withhold confirmation of the nomination of an individual to fill such a position. The authority of the President to designate such positions is also limited by the strength caps on GFOs found in 10 U.S.C. §§525 and 526. Statutorily Defined Positions Congress has established in law certain GFO positions with specified grades, designated duties, or both. Those GFOs named in 10 U.S.C. §151, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the commanders of unified and specified combatant commands constitute most of these positions. Title 10 U.S.C. §152 specifies that the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff holds the rank of General or Admiral (O-10) “while so serving .” Appendix B provides excerpts of the statutorily required responsibilities, duties, or functions of certain GFO positions. Congress may change these duties. For example, Section 512 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year