CRS -22 Position /Service Statute Grade and Requirements Selected Duties, Responsibilities, or Functions Appointment Du ration • Exercising authority, direction, and control over the expenditure of funds for forces assigned directly to the cyber command, and for cyber operations forces assigned to unified combatant commands other than the cyber command. • Training and certifying assigned joint forces. • Conducting specialized courses of instruction for commissioned and noncommiss ioned officers. • Validating requirements, establishing priorities for requirements, and ensuring the interoperability of equipment and forces. • Monitoring the promotion of cyber operation forces and coordinating with the military departments regarding the assignment, retention, training, professional military education, and special and incentive pays of cyber -operation forces. • Ensuring the combat readiness of forces assigned to the cyber command. • Monitoring the preparedness to carry out assigned missions of cyber forces assigned to unified combatant commands CRS -23 Position /Service Statute Grade and Requirements Selected Duties, Responsibilities, or Functions Appointment Du ration other than the cyber command. Chief of the National Guard Bureau /Joint “Positions of importance and responsibility” Grade of general or admiral or lieutenant general or vice admiral 10 U.S.C. §10502 10 U.S.C. §601 General • Must have had at least 10 years of federally recognized commissioned service in an active status in the National Guard in a grade above the grade of brigadier general . • Significant joint duty experience . • The President designates such positions serving on active duty in any grade above colonel or Navy captain . • Other joint duty assignments . • Serving as a principal advisor to the Secretary of Defense, through the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, on matters involving nonfederalized National Guard forces and on other matters as determined by the Secretary of Defense. • Serving as the principal advisor to the Secretary of the Army and the Chief of Staff of the Army, and to the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, on matters relating to the National Guard, the Army National Guard of the United States, and the Air National Guard of the United States . • Addressing matters involving nonfederalized National Guard forces in support of homeland defense and civil support missions as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Four years , may be reappointed. Serves at the pleasure of the President. Source: Title 10, U.S. Code. Note: This table does not include a full listing of statutory positions. Likewise, for the positions it does list, the table does no t include a full description of statutorily defined functions, duties, or responsibilities. Statutory Framework for Congressional Management of DOD General and Flag Officers Congressional Research Service R44389 · VERSION 18 · UPDATED 24 Author Information Michael J. Vassalotti, Coordinator Section Research Manager Sofia Plagakis Senior Research Librarian Acknowledgments Lawrence Kapp, former Specialist in Defense Personnel Policy , originally authored this report. Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan