(which grew from 0.0014% of the total force to 0.0032%, a 12 8.6% increase) and three -star officers (which grew from 0.0045% of the total force to 0.013%, a 1 89% increase). One - and two -star officers as a percentage of the total force inc reased 20.5% (from 0.0425% of the total force to 0.0512%). These increases occurred while the size of the officer corps in general increas ed as a percentage of the active force. As indicated in the last column of Table A-1, between 1965 and 2024, the officer corps increased from 12. 8% of the active force to 18.2%, indicating that the share of the active force comprised of officers increa sed by 42. 2%. Criticisms of Increasing the Proportion of GFOs Generally, criticisms of increasing the proportion of GFOs relative to the total force fall into two broad categories . The first criticism revolves around the increased cost of employing a GFO, compared with employing a lower -ranking officer. The second relates to the belief that too many GFOs may slow down decisionmaking processes. Each point is examined in more detail below. • Cost . GFOs cost more to employ than officers of a lower rank , in part due to the higher compensation they receive. For example, a GFO in paygrade O -7 (i.e., 1 - star officers, Brigadier General / Rear Admiral (Lower Half) ) may expect to receive about $272,802 in RMC in 202 6, while an officer in paygrade O -6 (i.e., Statutory Framework for Congressional Management of DOD General and Flag Officers Congressional Research Service 9 Colon el / Captain) may expect to receive about $237,978 .21 There can be additional costs associated with GFOs such as large staffs, official travel, and security details.22 • Decisionmaking . Another criticism is that increasing the proportion of GFOs may slow decisionmaking by adding additional layers of management between the highest and lowest echelons of command. In a 2010 speech, former Secretary of Defense Robert Gates criticized the impa ct of an increase in GFOs and senior civilians in making the DOD a top -heavy and overly bureaucratic organization . He noted, as an example, that “The Defense Business Board recently estimated that in some cases the gap between me and an action officer may be as high as 30 layers .”23 Justifications for a Higher Proportion of GFOs Several congressional hearings have addressed the potential benefits of having a high proportion of GFOs relative to the total force.24 A 1997 congressional review of GFO authorizat ions describes several rationales for a relatively high proportion , including the following: • Coalition operations . Forging coalitions with other nations to achieve common security objectives can generate demand for senior military leaders to conduct coordi nated planning, training, and operations with peers from foreign nations. Conducting contingency operations a fter the end of the Cold War often involved forces from dozens of countries, including the forces of the nation in which the operations t ook