Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA): Overview and Issues for Congress Updated February 19, 2026 Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov R45460 Congressional Research Service SUMMARY Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA): Overview and Issues for Congress The Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA; P.L. 92 -583, 16 U.S.C. §§1451 -1466), enacted in 1972 and since amended, set up a national framework for states and territories to consider and manage coastal resources and potential impacts on those resources, and for the federal government to provide financial assistance to support such eff orts. Congress may continue to consider whether to alter —and if so, how —the focus and implementation of CZMA activities and CZMA’s federal assistance authorizations and appropriations. Congress also may consider whether —and if so, how —to modify or codify i n statute any executive actions taken by the Trump Administration. Under CZMA, if a state or territory chooses to develop a coastal management program (CMP) and the Secretary of Commerce approves such a program, the state or territory becomes a participan t and (1) is eligible for federal financial assistance and (2) can perform consistency determination reviews of federal agency actions in coastal areas. The Secretary of Commerce has delegated CZMA administration to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adm inistration’s (NOAA’s) Office for Coastal Management (OCM). States determine the details of their CMPs, including coastal zone boundaries, issues of most interest to them, and policies to address these issues, among other factors. Thirty -five states and te rritories (including the Great Lakes states, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands) are eligible to participate. Although all 35 have chosen to participate at some point, 34 are currently part of the N ational Coastal Zone Management Program (NCZMP; Alaska has not participated since 2011). Between FY1974 and FY2024, NOAA allocated nearly $2.7 billion (nominal dollars) to participants across six coastal zone management -related financial assistance progra ms. During this time, participants received amounts ranging from at least $25.5 million to over $1 34.0 million in financial assistance, depending on factors such as how long the participant had been a part of NCZMP, the participant’s population and shoreli ne length, and the extent of the participant’s success in competitive CZMA grant programs. Congress provided $81.5 million to NOAA for coastal zone management financial assistance in FY2026. CZMA consistency provisions require federal actions that have rea sonably foreseeable effects on coastal uses or resources to be consistent with policies of a participant’s approved CMP. An action may occur in the participant’s approved coastal zone or in nearby federal or out -of-state waters that may cause interstate co astal effects. Federal agencies or applicants proposing to perform work in or near coastal zones (e.g., a project developer proposing an activity pursuant to a federal permit or usi ng federal funds) must submit a consistency determination to the potentiall y affected participant certifying that the actions are consistent with participant policies and providing participants the opportunity to review their determinations. Depending