impacts on the state (Ryan M. Wilson, Why Did Alaska Eliminate the Alaska Coastal Management Program? , 2018, https://scholarworks.alaska.edu/ handle/ 11122/ 8751 , and Mark Thiessen, “Coastal Management Initiative Fails by a Heavy Margin,” Alaska Journal of Commerce , 2012, https://www.proquest.com/ trade -journals/ coastal -management -initiative -fails-heavy -margin/ docview/ 1040833201/ se-2?accountid= 12084 ). Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA): Overview and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 4 Variety Among State Coastal Management Programs Although the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) and related regulations require states and territo ries (hereinafter states ) to include specific components and take certain steps in developing their coastal management programs (CMPs), states have flexibility in their programs’ structure and focus. Once the Secretary of Commerce approves a state’s CMP, t he state becomes known as a participant . CMPs vary in terms of where in each participant’s government the program is situated , the relationships between state and local levels of government, and which issues are emphasized. One major variation among CMPs is a program’s placement in the participant’s government al structure , which may indicate how that participant approaches coastal management . NOAA has designated participants as direct or networked states. Direct states are pa rticipants with a single state agency with direct coastal comprehensive permit or regulatory activities. These states include California, Connecticut, Louisiana, New Jersey, North Carolina, Northern Marianas, Rhode Island, South Carolina, and the U.S. Virg in Islands. Networked states are those participants with a lead state agency that coordinates with other state agencies and where several state agencies have CMP responsibilities. These states include the remaining states and territories that are currently part of the National Coastal Zone Management Program. A second variation among CMPs is how programs divide responsibilities between the state and local levels of government. NOAA has identified three main techniques participants use in their CMP organiza tional structure. Technique A is where a state establishes criteria and standards for local implementation, subject to state administrative review and enforcement. While many state s use Technique A, no states use only Technique A. Technique B is where a st ate implements land and water use planning and regulation. States using Technique B include American Samoa, Georgia, Guam, Illinois, Indiana, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Northern Marianas, Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, South Carolina, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The remaining states, with the exception of Michigan, use a mix of Techniques A and B. Finally, Technique C is where a state reviews actions affecting land and water uses in the CMP on a case -by-case basis. Michigan uses a combination of T echniques A, B, and C. A third variation is the selection of program components that participants choose to emphasize, such as the protection of natural resources and the management of coastal development. A participant’s focus may depend on characteristi cs of its coastal zone, major activities in the coastal zone, and associated issues and challenges. A comparison across the 34 participants is outside the scope of this