to encourage the preparation of special area management plans to protect significant natural resources, support reasonable coastal -dependent economic growth, and improve protection of life and property; • to encourage t he participation and cooperation of the public, state and local governments, interstate and other regional agencies, and federal agencies to carry out CZMA; • to encourage coordination and cooperation with and among appropriate federal, state, and local agen cies, and international organizations, in collection, analysis, and dissemination of coastal management information and research; and • to respond to changing circumstances affecting the coastal environment and resources and their management by encouraging s tates and territories to consider ocean uses that may affect the coastal zone.6 Under CZMA, each level of government plays a role in coastal management. At the federal level, the Secretary of Commerce implements CZMA’s national policies and provisions; th e Secretary has delegated this responsibility to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA’s) Office for Coastal Management (OCM). To participate in the NCZMP, states must adhere to guidelines as set in federal statute and related regulat ions. States and territories determine the details of their coastal management programs (CMPs), including the boundaries of their coastal zones, issues of most interest to the state, and policies to address these issues, among other factors. Local governme nts implement the approved CMPs, often through land use regulations. National Coastal Zone Management Program OCM administers CZMA provisions under two national programs, the NCZMP and the National Estuarine Research Reserve System (NERRS);7 this report focuses on the NCZMP. The NCZMP 5 P.L. 92 -583. 6 16 U.S.C. §1452. 7 The National Estu arine Research Reserve System program funds research and monitoring in 30 protected coastal areas. The Digital Coast is an online platform with data, tools, and training for U.S. coastal managers and technicians . OCM houses the NOAA Coral Reef Conservation Program, which supports efforts to preserve, sustain, and restore coral reef ecosystems across NOAA. More information on all of these programs can be found at NOAA, “Learn About the Programs,” https://coast.no aa.gov/ about/ , archived April 1, 2025, at https://perma.cc/ 8VNR -3UYH . Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA): Overview and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 3 encourages interested coastal states and territories (hereinafter referred to as states ) to work with NOAA to develop and implement coastal management programs.8 To join, states must develop CMPs pursuant to CZMA and federa l regulations. States that join the NCZMP are eligible for several federal financial assistance programs and have the right to review federal actions for consistency with state coastal policies. How States and Territories Become Part of the NCZMP If a state chooses to become part of the NCZMP, it must develop a CMP pursuant to CZMA Section 306 and NOAA regulations.9 CMPs must contain “a broad class of policies for ... resource protection, management of coastal development, and simplification of governm ental processes.”10 The Secretary of Commerce (the Secretary) must conclude that the state has completed certain tasks