https://coast.noaa.gov/ data/ czm/ consistency/ media/ appealslist.pdf , archived December 23, 2025 at https://perma.cc/ 8RVR -FPAQ . Hereinafter NOAA, Appeals under CZMA , August 18, 2025. 46 NOAA, Appeals Under CZMA , August 18 , 2025. 47 In addition to the decisions noted in the text, the Secretary of Commerce has delegated questions of threshold (i .e., whether the appeal meets the form and timeliness requirements set in regulation) to the NOAA general counsel and substantive appeal decisions to the Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere (NOAA, Appeals Under CZMA , August 18 , 2025). Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA): Overview and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 13 Changes Along the Coast Congress may continue to examine CZMA in light of continued population and infrastructure growth along the coast, as well as coastal environmental conditions. According to the 2020 census, coastal shoreline counties were home to 129 million people —nearly 40% of the U.S. population.48 NOAA and the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis estimate that the marine economy, covering the U.S. oceans and Great Lakes, accounted for 2. 6 million jobs and contributed $ 511 billion to the total U.S. gross domestic product in 20 23.49 Population and infrastructure growth often occurs in shoreline communities amid ecosystems such as beaches, reefs, sea grasses, wetlands, estuaries, and deltas. The combination of built and natural systems has been and likely will continue to be affected by changes in sea level (and its impacts, such as higher tides, greater storm surge, saltwater intrusion, erosion, etc.), local rainfall, water and air temperatures, and ocean acidification, among other factors.50 Some scholars have argued for substantial revision or alterations to CZMA to account for changes along the coast.51 For example, one suggested changing CZMA financial assistance programs to focus primarily on actions to protect and restore natural systems, acquire wetlands with greatest capacity to adapt to sea level rise, and address sea level rise and biodiversity loss.52 Another advocated amending CZMA to increase the use of science in coastal management decisions and more acutely focus on low -income coa stal communities.53 Still another encouraged participants to more fully include the fishing industry in their coastal management planning regarding offshore wind;54 Congress could amend CZMA to make these changes or others . On the other hand, some stakehol ders may argue that CZMA is working as intended and should not be amended to specifically address new or novel concerns. Others, including the Trump Administration , have taken action to reduce, rather than expand, federal financial assistance under CZMA. Members of the 119th Congress have introduced several bills with provisions to amend CZMA. For example, Members have introduced bills focused on amending CZMA to include provisions regarding climate change preparedness and response and “ working waterfronts ,” including the creation of new financial assistance program s.55 Another bill in the 11 9th Congress would expand 48 NOAA, OCM, “E conomics and Demographics,” https://coast.noaa.gov/ states/ fast-facts/ economics -and- demographics.html , archived April 1, 2025, at https://perma.cc/ Q85H -YB33 .