to emphasize, such as the protection of natural resources and the management of coastal development. A participant’s focus may depend on characteristi cs of its coastal zone, major activities in the coastal zone, and associated issues and challenges. A comparison across the 34 participants is outside the scope of this report . However, as an example, both Illinois and Indiana are networked programs that u se Technique B. Illinois has chosen to focus on habitats and species, economic development and recreation, and coastal communities. The program in neighboring Indiana has focused on protection and sustainable use of natural and cultural resources in the La ke Michigan region. Sources: Personal correspondence with NOAA, Office of Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs, February 9, 2024; Illinois Department of Natural Resources, “Coastal Management Program,” https://dnr.illinois.gov/ cmp.html ; and Indiana Department of Natural Resources, “About the Lake Michigan Coastal Program,” https://www.in.gov/ dnr/lake-michigan -coastal -program/ about/ . Why States and Territories May Choose to Join the NCZMP Participation in the NCZMP provides various benefits to participants, including access to several federal financial assistance programs and the right to review certain federal actions for consistency with state coastal policies. These provisions have been mainstays of CZMA since its congressional consideration and enactment.14 Access to Federal Financial Assistance Programs Coastal states or territories with approved CMPs are e ligible to apply for federal financial assistance for coastal zone management. Financial assistance programs have changed over time to reflect congressional priorities and have included funding for program development, coastal energy impacts, and research and technical assistance. Currently, CZMA authorize s the Secretary of Commerce to provide funding related to program administration (Section 306),15 coastal 14 U.S. Congress, Senate Committee on Commerce, Legislative History of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as Amended in 1974 and 1976 with a Section -by-Section Index , committee print, prepared by the Congressional Research Service, 94th Cong., 2nd sess., 1976, CMP -1976 -COM -0021. 15 16 U.S.C. §1455. Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA): Overview and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 5 resource improvement (Section 306A),16 coastal and estuarine land conservation (Section 307A),17 coastal enhancement objectives (Section 309),18 technical assistance (Section 310),19 and coastal nonpoint pollution control (Section 6217) ( Table 1).20 The ability to fund activities under these authorities is subject to the availability of appropriations . Table 1 shows programs that are a part of CZMA; some, but not all, have received federal funding in the last few years. For example, Congress appropriated $81.5 million for CZMA financial assistance for FY202 4, of which the agency allocated $71.4 million to Section s 306 and 306A grants and $10.0 million to Section 309 grants.21 Congress provided a total appropriation to NOAA for FY2025 but did not identify a specific amount for CZMA financial assistan ce, and the agency has not released a spending plan detailing its allocations. Congress again provided NOAA with $81.5 million for CZMA financial assistance in FY2026; details about the allocation of funds to specific programs were not available at