Appendixes B and C of that report. 40 NOAA has defined the term consistent to the maximum extent practicable as “fully consistent with the enforceable policies of management programs unless full consistency is prohibited by existing law applicable to the Federal agency ” (15 C.F.R. §930.32). 41 15 C.F.R. §930.43. 42 16 U.S.C. §1456(c) -(d); 15 C.F.R. §930.64; 15 C.F .R. §930.80; and 15 C.F.R. §930.97. 43 16 U.S.C. §1456(c) -(d); and 15 C.F.R. §930 Subparts G and H. 44 Department of Commerce, Decision and Findings by the U.S. Secretary of Commerce in the Consistency Appeal of Electric Boat Corporation from an Objection b y the New York State Department of State , November 16, 2020, p. 18, https://coast.noaa.gov/ data/ czm/ consistency/ appeals/ fcappealdecis ions/ mediadecisions/ ebc-decision.pdf , archived April 1, 2025, at https://perma.cc/ R8D4 -VD25 . Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA): Overview and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 11 T able 2. Summary of CZMA Consistency Determination Review Process by Proposed Federal Action T ype Federal Agency Activities Federal License or Permit Activities Outer Continental Shelf Plans Federal Assistance Activities to State and Local Governments Proposed action is subject to participant review if it ... Affects any land or water use or natural resource of state coastal zone, regardless of locatio n of activity. Affects any land or water use or natural resource of state coastal zone and activity is listed in participant’s CMP or NOAA approves review of unlisted activity. Affects any land or water use or natural resource of state coastal zone. Affects any land or water use or natural resource of state coastal zone and activity is listed in participant’s CMP or participant reviews unlisted activity. Consistency Requirement Consistent to the maximum extent practicable with participant CMP enforce able policiesa Consistent with participant CMP enforceable policies Consistent with participant CMP enforceable policies Consistent with participant CMP enforceable policies Participant Review Period 60 days (plus 15 -day extension or alternative period agreed to by participant and federal agency) 6 months 3 months (participant may extend to 6 months) Participant clearinghouse schedule Impact of Participant Objection Federal agency may proceed only if it provides legal basis for being consistent to the maximum extent practicableb Federal agency may not grant a license or permit unless Secretary of Commerce overrides objection on appeal Federal agency may not grant a license or permit for plan activities unless Secreta ry of Commerce overrides objection on appeal Federal agency may not provide federal assistance unless Secretary of Commerce overrides objection on appeal Conflict Resolution Mediation by Secretary of Commerce or OCMc (voluntary process and nonbinding decision) License or permit applicant may appeal to Secretary of Commerce to override participant objection (binding decision) Person may appeal to Secretary of Commer ce to override participant objection (binding decision) State and local governments may appeal to Secretary of Commerce to override participant objection (binding decision) Source: CRS, a dapted from National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), CZMA Federal Consistency Overview , February 24, 2020, https://coast.noaa.gov/