NOAA’s Office of Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs, January 12, 2026. Notes: NOAA combined funding information for Sections 306 and 306A grants. In addition, NOAA indicated the funding amounts do not include funds from the Infr astructure Investment and Jobs Act, Inflation Reduction Act, and congressionally directed spending, or through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (limited to use in Great Lakes states), which may have been allocated to the CZMA financial assistance pro grams. Federal Consistency Determination Review CZMA Section 307 requires federal actions that have reasonably foreseeable effects on coastal uses or resources to be consistent with the enforceable policies of a participant’s approved CMP.26 These actions may occur in the state’s approved coastal zone or in federal or out -of-state waters (which may cause interstate coastal effects). Federal agencies or applicants proposing to perform certain actions with a federal nexus (e.g., a project developer that woul d perform work pursuant to a federal permit or using federal funds) must submit a consistency determination or consistency certification (hereinafter referred to as a consistency determination), depending on the federal action, to the potentially affected participant confirming that proposed actions are consistent with the state’s coastal policies.27 The participant then completes a consistency determination review. Statutes and NOAA regulation have defined several terms related to consistency determinations and reviews , including the following: • Applicant is “any individual, public or private corporation, partnership, association, or other entity organized or existing under the laws of any nation, State, or any State, regional, or local government, who, following management program approval, either files a n application for a required individual federal license or permit, or who files a consistency certification for a required general federal license or permit … to conduct an activity affecting any coastal use or resource.”28 • Coastal zone is defined as the c oastal waters and adjacent shorelands, strongly influenced by each other, and includes islands, transitional and intertidal areas, salt marshes, wetlands, and beaches. The zone extends in Great Lakes waters to 26 16 U.S.C. §1456(c)(1)(A). 27 16 U.S.C. §1456(c)(1)(C); 16 U.S.C. §1456(c)(3)(A); 16 U.S.C. §1456(c)(3)(B); and 16 U.S.C. §1456(d). 28 15 C.F.R. §930.52. Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA): Overview and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 9 the international boundary and in other areas seaward to the outer limit of the state title and ownership under various acts, such as the Submerged Lands Act.29 The zone extends inland from the shorelines only to the extent necessary to control shorelands and to control those geographical areas that a re likely to be affected by or vulnerable to sea level rise.30 Identification of the coastal zone boundaries is a required part of an approved CMP.31 • Effect on coastal use or resource refers to “any reasonable foreseeable effect on any coastal use or reso urce resulting from a federal agency activity or federal license or permit activity,” including federal assistance to state and local governments.32 Effects may be environmental or impact coastal use; may be direct or secondary; and may