about the post -Brexit arrangements for Northern Ireland an d facilitate the establishment of a new devolved government. In late January 2024, the DUP accepted a package of measures proposed by the UK government —set out in a new Safeguarding the Union command paper —that outline d some operational changes to the Wind sor Framework to ease trade further between Northern Ireland and Great Britain and reassure unionists of Northern Ireland’s place within the UK.15 Despite some concerns among several DUP party officials about the command paper and accompanying implementing legislation, the DUP decided to end its boycott of Northern Ireland’s power -sharing institutions and enter into a new devolved government.16 Northern Ireland’s Assembly and new Executive began work on February 3, 2024. For the first time in Northern Ireland’s history, the position of first minister is now held by a Sinn Fein member, Michelle O’Neill. Sinn Fein was entitled to the position of first minister because it won the largest number of Assembly seats in the May 2022 election , although the roles of first minister and deputy minister are equal. DUP Assembly member Emma Little -Pengelly assumed the role of deputy first minister. Both First Minister O’Neill and Deputy First Minister Little - Pengelly pledged to serve “all” people and communities in Northern Ireland.17 As part of the 2024 deal to restore the devolved gove rnment, the UK government agreed to provide a £3.3 billion (about $4.2 billion) financial package for Northern Ireland to help address budgetary pressures (due in part to the delay in reestablishing the devolved government). Funding priorities include d increasing public sector pay amid high inflation and recent large -scale strikes (by health care and transportation workers, teachers, civil servants, and others) , improving infrastructure, and enhancing investment. The UK government also recommitted to devolv ing corporate tax powers to Northern Ireland’s power -sharing institutions, which would allow Northern Ireland to set a lower corporate tax rate than the UK main rate (of 25%) to compete more effectively with the lower corporate tax rate in the Republic of Ireland.18 Ongoing Challenges in the Peace Process Nearly 28 years after the signing of the Good Friday Agreement and a much -improved security situation , the past remains ever -present in Northern Ireland and t he search for peace and reconciliation remains challenging. Difficult issues include bridging sectarian divisions and managing key sticking points ( such as parading, protests, and the use of flag s and emblems ), dealing with Northern Ireland’s legacy of violence , addressing remaining paramilitary concer ns and curbing dissident activity , and furthering economic development and equality. 15 In the UK, command papers are official publications that present major government initiatives to Parliament “by command” of the sovereign. See UK Parliament, “About Command Papers, ” https://www.parliament.uk/ about/ how/ publications/ government/ . 16 Shawn Pogatchnik, “DUP Agrees to Drop Boycott of Northern Ireland Power -Sharing,” Politico , January 30, 2024; Jayne McCormack and Finn Purdy, “Stormont: Assembly to Sit on Saturday as