Fein won the largest number of seats in the 90 -member Assembly and surpassed the DUP as the largest party in the Assembly (see Table 1).13 Decreased support for the DUP appear ed to be driven by dissatisfaction with the party’s leadership on Brexit and internal party divisions. Sinn Fein strongly support s a united Ireland but centered its election campaign on everyday concerns, such as the rising cost s of living and health care. The smaller, cross -community Alliance Party made significant gains, attributed to voter frustration wi th Northern Ireland’s identity politics and frequent instability in the power -sharing institutions.14 Voter turnout was 63%. (Also see text box, “Main Political Parties in Northern Ireland,” below .) 12 Jayne McCormack, “Givan Resignation Triggers Fresh Political Crisis in NI,” BBC News, February 3, 2022. 13 The Good Friday Agreement established a 108 -member Assembly, but the 2015 Fresh Start Agreement reduced the size of the Assembly to 90 members (effective after the May 2016 Assembly election) , among other in itiatives . The Fresh Start Agreement is available at https://www.gov.uk/ government/ news/ a-fresh -start-for-northern -ireland . 14 Jill Lawless and Peter Morrison, “Sinn Fein Eyes Historic Win in Northern Ireland Election,” A P News , May 4, 2022; Mark Landler, “As B ritain Turned Away from EU, Northern Ireland Turned to Sinn Fein,” New York Times , May 7, 2022; Mark Devenport, “How Alliance Number Nerds Turned Single Digits into a Surge,” BBC News , May 9, 2022. Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Congressional Research Service 7 Following the May 2022 election, the DUP blocked the work of the Assembly and prevented the formation of a new Executive in an effort to continue to pressure the UK government to address unionist objections to the post -Brexit arrangements in the Northern Ireland protocol. In February 2023, the UK and the EU anno unced a new agreement —known as the Windsor Framework —that sought to resolve the challenges posed by the Northern Ireland protocol . The DUP , however, asserted that the Windsor Framework did not fully address the party’s concerns about the protocol and that further progress would be necessary before the DUP would agree to reestablish Northern Ireland’s devolved government . T able 1. Northern Ireland 2022 Election Results Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) Political Party # of Seats +/- Seats Sinn Fein (SF; hard -line nationalist, left -wing) 27 — Democratic Unionist Party (DUP; hard -line unionist, conservative ) 25 -3 Alliance Party of Northern Ireland (APNI; nonsectarian, centrist/ liberal ) 17 +9 Ulster Unionist Party (UUP; moderate unionist, center -right) 9 -1 Social Democratic and Labor Party (SDLP ; moderate nationalist, center - left) 8 -4 Traditional Unionist Voice (TUV ; hard-line unionist, right -wing) 1 — People Before Profit Alliance (PBPA; nonsectarian , left-wing) 1 — Independent (unionist) 2 +1 Source: BBC News, “Northern Ireland Assembly Election Results 2022,” https://www.bbc.com/ news/ election/ 2022/ northern -ireland/ results . Main Political Parties in