nists, loyalists, and the police, which in turn prompted armed action by nationalists and republicans. Increasing chaos and escalating violence led the UK government to deploy the British Army on the streets of Northern Ireland in 1969 and to impose direct rule f rom London in 1972 (between 1921 and 1972, Northern Ireland had its own regional governm ent). For years, the UK and Irish governments sought to facilitate a negotiated political settlement to the conflict . Multiparty talks began in June 1996 , led by former Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, who was serving as U.S. President Bill Clinton ’s special adviser on Ireland . The UK and Irish governments and the Northern Ireland political parties participating in the peace talks announced an agreement on April 10, 1998. This accord became known as the Good Friday Agreement (for the day on which it was concluded); it is also known as the Belfast Agreement .4 Despite the significant decrease in the levels of violence since the Good Friday Agreement, implemen tation of the peace accord proved challenging. Tension s and distrust persist among Northern Ireland ’s political parties and between the unionist and nationalist communities more broadly. Northern Ireland continues to grapple with a number of issues in its search for peace and reconciliation. Sectarian differences flare periodically , and a ddressing Northern Ireland ’s legacy of violence (often termed dealing with the past ) is particularly controversial. The UK ’s 1 In 1921, the mostly Catholic, southern part of Ireland won independen ce from the United Kingdom (UK), resulting in the establishment of the Irish Free State in 1922 within the British Commonwealth . The Irish government formally declared Ireland a republic in 1948 and severed its remaining constitutional links with the UK. The Republic of Ireland , with a population of rough ly 5.2 million, consists of 26 counties a nd encompasses about five -sixths of the island of Ireland; Northern Ireland , with approximately 1.9 million people, comprises six counties and encompasses the remaining one -sixth of the island. 2 Many unionists and loyalists refer to the six counties that today make up Northern Ireland as Ulster . Technically and historically, Ulster also includes the three northernmost counties of the Republic of Ireland. 3 Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency Census 2021 , “Main Statistics for Northern Ireland : Religion,” Statistical Bulletin, September 22, 2022, https://www.nisra.gov.uk/ system/ files/ statistics/ census -2021 -main -statistics - for-northern -ireland -phase -1-statistical -bulletin -religion.pdf . 4 The text of the Good Friday Agreement (or Belfast Agreement) may be found at http://cain.ulst.ac.uk/ events/ peace/ docs/ /agreement.htm . The unionist/Protestant community tends to use the term Belfast Agreement, viewing the name Good Friday Agreement as biased in favor of the n ationalist/Catholic community. For the purposes of this report, the peace accord is referred to as the Good Friday Agreement, because this is the name more widely used and recognized in the United States. Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S.