to the continued functioning and implementation of the peace accord .72 The UK government and the DUP increasingly argued that the protocol was not sustainable, called for substantial changes to the protocol, and repeatedly threatened to suspend parts of it.73 Sinn Fein, other nationalists, and the Irish government maintain ed that the protoc ol wa s the only viable option to avoid a har d border on the island of Ireland . The EU rejected UK and DUP calls to fundamentally renegotiate the protocol and asserted that any measures to resolve implementation problems must be found “within the framework” of the protocol .74 The 2023 Windsor Framewo rk and the 2024 UK -DUP Deal The 2023 UK-EU Windsor Framework and the 2024 UK -DUP agreement sought to address implementation challenges and other concerns with Northern Ireland’s post -Brexit arrangements . • 2023 Windsor Framework.75 Announced in February 2023 by the UK and EU after nearly two years of negotiation s, the Windsor Framework left the basic architecture of the protocol in place but s ought to reduce customs checks and paperwork for goods from Great Britain remaining in Northern Ireland . The framework includes simpler rules for certain agri -food products entering Northern Ireland and sets out that UK health and safety standards (rather than EU standards) would apply to all retail food and drink intended for end consumption in Northern Ireland (thereby ensuring that Northern Ireland consumers could still buy certain iconic British products, such as fresh sausages) . Both the UK and the EU stressed that the Windsor F ramework sought to provide solutions to protocol - related issue s affecting everyday life for people and businesses in Northern Ireland. According to UK officials, the Windsor Framework narrowed the range of EU laws applicable in Northern Ireland to less than 3% overall, needed to maintain Northern Ireland’s access to the EU sing le market. Among other measures, t he framework also introduce d a new mechanism, known as the Stormont brake , to allow Northern Ireland legislators to object to the automatic application of changes in EU goods rules in Northern Ireland. UK and EU officials officially approved the Windsor Framework in March 2023 and the new trade rules came into force in October 2023. • 2024 UK -DUP Deal. Throughout the rest of 2023, the UK government sought to address the DUP’s remaining concerns about the post -Brexit arrangeme nts for Northern Ireland. In late January 2024, the UK government proposed operational changes to the Windsor Framework and other measures in a new Safeguarding the Union document (along with two pieces of implementing legislation , 72 Pat Leahy, “NI Protocol Tensions Threaten UK -Ireland, UK -EU and UK -US Rel ations,” Irish Times , June 11, 2021. 73 See, for example, Government of the UK , Northern Ireland Protocol: The Way Forward , July 21, 2021, and Democratic Unionist Party, Speech by DUP Leader Sir Jeffrey Donaldson MP , September 9, 2021. 74 European Commission , “Statement