2022. 86 Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency , Northern Ireland Economic Trade Statistics 2023, December 1 1, 2024, https://datavis.ni sra.gov.uk/ economy -and-labour -market/ northern -ireland -economic -trade -statistics -2023.html . 87 See, for example, Simon Marks, “Brexit Is (Maybe) the Ruin of Irish Whiskey,” Politico , March 3, 2017; Colm Kelpie, “Brexit: How Would No -Deal Affect Northern Ireland?,” BBC News, September 22, 2019. 88 Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency , Northern Ireland Economic Trade Statistics 202 3, December 1 1, 2024. 89 See, for example, Andrew McDonald, “Rishi Sunak Gives EU Windsor Framework Deal the Hard Sell in Belfast,” Politico , February 28, 2023. 90 See, for example, Northern Ireland Department for the Economy, “Minister Pitches the North’s Unique Business Proposition to US Business Leaders,” press release, March 14, 2024. Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Congressional Research Service 21 the Northern Ireland protocol/Windsor Framework as having a positive impact on Northern Ireland’s economy and 6 1% regarded the post -Brexit arrangements as potentially beneficial.91 Some Northern Ireland retailers continue to report implementation problems with the post -Brexit arrangements , and some stakeholders point to increased administrative burdens and costs f or Northern Ireland businesses and consumers.92 An independent review of the Windsor Framework published in September 2025 found that small - and medium -sized companies in Northern Ireland faced “major problems” navigating the post -Brex it rule s.93 In Novemb er 2025, the UK government announced £16 million (about $21 million) in new funding to support Northern Ireland businesses in dealing with the new rules. UK officials also express confidence that UK - EU efforts to conclude a n SPS agreement for agri -food products will help reduce red tape and lower costs for businesses and consumers in Northern Ireland.94 Constitutional Status and Border Poll Prospects Brexit has revived questions about Northern Ireland ’s constituti onal status. Sinn Fein has argued that “Brexit changes everything” and could generate greater support for a united Ireland.95 Since the 2016 Brexit referendum, Sinn Fein has repeatedly called for a border poll (a referendum on whether Northern Ireland should remain pa rt of the UK or join the Republic of Ireland) in the hopes of realizing its long -term goal of Irish unification. As noted previously, t he Good Friday Agreement provides for the possibility of a border poll , in line with the consent principle . Any decision to hold a border poll in Northern Ireland on its constitutional status rests with the UK Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , who must call one if it “appears likely” that “a majority of those voting would express a wish that Northern Ireland should ce ase to be part of the United Kingdom and form part of a united Ireland.”96 At present, opinion polls indicate that more people in Northern Ireland continue to support the region ’s position as part of the UK. A February 2024 poll found 54% in favor of Northern Ireland’s continued position