. The UK withdrew from the EU on January 31, 2020, ending its 47 -year membership in the bloc. Following an 11-month transition period (during which the UK continued to participate in the EU’s single market and customs union) , the post -Brexit arrangements in the Northern Ireland protocol took effect on January 1, 2021. The DUP was the only major Northern Irelan d political party to support Brexit but often was at odds with Brexit’s implementation by successive UK governments. The subsequent 2023 Windsor Framework agreed between the UK and the EU and a 2024 UK-DUP agreement sought to address DUP concerns about the post-Brexit arrangements and to reduce political and societal tensions in Northern Ireland. The Irish Border and Post -Brexit Arrangements At the time of the 1998 Good Friday Agreement, the EU membership of both the UK and the Republic of Ireland was regar ded as essential to underpinning the political settlement by providing a common European identity for unionists and nationalists in Northern Ireland. EU law also provided a supporting framework for guaranteeing the human rights, equality, and nondiscrimina tion provisions of the peace accord. Since 1998, as security checkpoints were dismantled in accordance with the peace agreement and decreasing levels of violence , and because both the UK and Ireland belonged to the EU ’s single market and customs union, the circuitous 300 -mile land border between Northern Ireland and Ireland effectively disappe ared. The open border served as an important political and psychological symbol on both sides of the sectarian divide and helped produce a dynamic cross -border economy . UK, Irish, and EU leaders asserted repeatedly that they did not desire a post-Brexit hard border with customs checks and physical infrastructure on the island of Ireland . Security assessments suggested that if border or custom posts were reinstated, viol ent dissident groups opposed to the peace process would view such infrastructure as targets . Some e xperts feared that such violence would threaten the region ’s security and stability and potentially put th e peace process at risk.65 Many in Northern Ireland and Ireland also were eager to maintain an open border to ensure “frictionless” trade, safeguard the North-South economy, and protect community relations. People in border communities worried that any hardening of the border could affect daily travel across the border to work, shop, or visit family and friends. Studies conducted in 2017 -2018 suggest ed there were upward of 300 public and private border crossing points along the border ; during the Troubles, only a fraction of crossing points were open and hour -long delays due to security measures and bureaucratic hurdles were common.66 Some Brexit advocates contended that Ireland and the EU were exaggerating the security concerns about the border. Those of this view also noted that, al though the Good Friday Agreement commits the UK to normalizing security arrangements (including the removal of 64 Government of the UK, New Withdrawal Agreement and Political Declaration , October 19, 2019, https://www.gov.uk/