Secretary of State Oral Statement on Northern Ireland Legacy , Oral Statement to Parliament, De cember 4, 2024. 40 UK Government and the Government of Ireland, The Legacy of the Troubles: A Joint Framework Between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of Ireland , September 19, 2025, https://www.gov.uk/ government/ publications/ the-legacy -of-the-troubles -a-joint-framework -between -the- government -of-the-united -kingdom -of-great -britain -and-northern -ireland -and-the-government -o. 41 UK Ministry of Defence, “Six New Protections, Rights, and Safeguards for Northern Ireland Veterans: Legacy Announcement,” September 19, 2025, https://www.gov.uk/ guidance/ six-new-protections -rights -and-safeguards -for- northern -ireland -veterans -legacy -announcement . 42 UK Parliament, Northern Ireland Troubles Bill , https: //bills.parliament.uk/ bills/ 4022 . Also see Joanna Dawson et al., Northern Ireland Troubles Bill 202 4-26, UK House of Commons Library, November 5, 2025. Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Congressional Research Service 13 the UK House of Commons and has advanced with the backing of the majority Labour Party . Reactions to the new bill among Northern Ireland parties and stakeholders have been mixed. Nationalists and victims groups have been generally supportive, whereas the DUP, other unionists, an d veterans groups have raised a number of concerns, including related to the Irish government ’s role in formulating and implementing some aspects of the joint framework and whether the protections for veterans announced by the UK government are sufficient. In debates and preliminary votes in the House of Commons to date, the DUP and other unionists have declined to support the bill.43 Remaining Paramilitary Issues and Dissident Activity Experts contend the major republican and loyalist paramilitary organiza tions active during the Troubles are now committed to the political process and remain on cease -fire. A 2015 UK government -comm issioned review found that all the main paramilitary groups that operated during the Troubles still exist ed, but the leadership of each group, “to different degrees,” was “committed to peaceful means to achieve their political objectives.” At the same time, the review concluded that individual members of paramilitary groups continued to represent a threat to national security and public order , including through their involvement in organized crime .44 In 2017, a four-member Independent Reporting Commission (IRC) was established to monitor paramilitary activity and report annually on pro gress toward ending such activity . The UK and Irish government s each named one commissioner to the IRC , and the N orthern Ireland Executive named two.45 In its eighth annual report, released in December 2025 , the IRC observed that violent crime linked to paramilitarism has been declining, but also stated that “intimidation, coercive control, and threats linked to paramilitary groups persist.” The IRC furth er noted that over the last two years, there ha s been instances of a “link between paramilit arism and racist violence connected to the issue of immigration .”46 In recent years, IRC commissioners and other observers also have raised concerns about the degree to which divisions over