Brexit’s possible economic conse quences for Northern Ireland . Some studies indicat ed that Northern Ireland depend ed more on the EU market (and especially that of Ireland) for its exports than did the rest of the UK.85 According to 2023 data (most recent available) , approximately 70% of Northern Ireland’s expo rts (goods and services) went to the EU, including about 54% to Ireland, which remains Northern Ireland’s top single export and import partner.86 Many officials and analysts in Northern Ireland and Ireland viewed m aintaining an open border after B rexit as crucial to protecting the island’s cross -border economy , as well as labor markets and industries that operate on an all -island basis . Many manufacturers in Northern Ireland and Ireland depend on integrated supply chains north and south of the border. For example, raw materials that go into making milk, cheese, butte r, and alcoholic drinks often cross the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland several times for processing and packaging.87 The DUP objected in part to the post -Brexit arrangements because of concerns that the se arrangements could negatively impact e conomic ties between the UK and Northern Ireland. UK and DUP leade rs assert ed that the rest of the UK was overall more important economically to Northern Ireland than the EU given the value of exports. According to 2023 data (most recent available) , sales to other parts of the UK (£1 7.1 billion) were almost double the v alue of exports to Ireland (£ 8.7 billio n) and nearly six times the value of exports to the r est of t he EU (£2. 6 billion).88 Supporters of the post -Brexit arrangement s for Northern Ireland maintain that they offer the region unique economic opportunities , with privileged access to both the UK i nternal market and the EU single market.89 As part of the UK customs union, Northern Ireland also is able to participate in future UK trade deals. Some officials and experts suggested the post -Brexit arrangements may help make Northern Ireland a more attractive destination for foreign direct investment.90 In an Octo ber 202 5 poll by Queen’s University Belfast, 4 6% of respondents viewed 84 Stefano Fella et al., The UK -EU Reset: Next Steps After the May 2025 Summit , UK House of Commons Library, July 29, 2025 , pp. 36 -37; John Campbell, “Sea Border for Food and Agricultural Products in Place Unti l 2027,” BBC News, August 27, 2025. 85 Report of the UK House of Lords European Union Committee, Brexit: UK-Irish Relations , December 2016; Lisa O’Carroll, “Pro -Brexit UK Regions More Dependent on EU for Exports, Study Finds,” Guardian , July 17, 2022. 86 Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency , Northern Ireland Economic Trade Statistics 2023, December 1 1, 2024, https://datavis.ni sra.gov.uk/ economy -and-labour -market/ northern -ireland -economic -trade -statistics -2023.html . 87 See, for example, Simon Marks, “Brexit Is (Maybe) the Ruin of Irish Whiskey,” Politico , March 3, 2017;