it view s as discriminatory .9 Security Normalization The Good Friday Agreement called for “as early a return as possible to normal security arrangements in Northern Ireland,” including the removal of security installations. In February 2007, t he last of more than 100 armored watchtowers in Northern Ireland was dismantled . In July 2007, the British A rmy ended its 38 -year-long military operation in Northern Ireland. Although a regular garrison of 5,000 British troops remain s based in Northern Ireland , British forces no longer have a role in policing and may be deployed worldwide. Rights, Safeguards, and Equality of Opportunity In accordance with the Good Friday Agreement ’s provisions related to human rights and equality, the UK government incorporated the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR , an internation al treaty of the Council of Europe10) into Northern Ireland law and established a Human Rights Commission and a n Equality Commission for Northern Ireland. Some nationalists have continue d to press for more progress and have argue d that Northern Ireland nee ds its own Bill of Rights . Consideration for a Bill of Rights was provided for in the Good Friday Agreement, but the i ssue has long been controversial . Consensus on the way forward —between unionists and nationalists, a s well as with the UK government —remains elusive. The Good Friday Agreement also calls for tolerance of linguistic diversity in Northern Ireland and support for the Irish language (Gaelic) . Giving Gaelic the same official status as English and calls for a stand -alone Irish Lang uage Act in Northern Ireland, however, were sensitive issues for many unionists. A 2020 deal to restore the power -sharing institutions included a compromise to recognize Gaelic as an official language in Northern Ireland and promote its use while also protecting the Ulster -Scots language (a regional language similar to English that many unionists consider important to their heritage ). In October 2022, the UK P arliament approved legislation enacting the language and cultural measures agreed in 2020 into law .11 8 Police Service of Northern Ireland, see Strength of Police Service Statistics and Workforce Composition Statistics , both updated regularly, https://www.psni.police.uk/ about -us/our-publications -and-reports/ our-publication -scheme/ who- we-are-and-what -we-do. 9 Julian O’Ne ill, “PSNI Numbers at Watershed Moment —Chief Constable,” BBC News, September 17, 2024; Daniel Hennessy, “PSNI Chief Warns of ‘Dangerously Low’ Numbers in Force,” Irish Times , December 1, 2025 ; Jayne McCormack, “Sinn Fein Calls for Return to 50 -50 Police Recruitment,” BBC News, February 23, 2026. 10 The UK is a party to the ECHR as a member of the Council of Europe, a leading European human rights body that the UK helped found in 1949. The Council of Europe is an entirely separate organization from t he EU. 11 The Identity and Language (Northern Ireland) Act 2022 received royal assent in December 2022 . Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Congressional Research Service 6 Political Developments Many analysts view