Agreement as biased in favor of the n ationalist/Catholic community. For the purposes of this report, the peace accord is referred to as the Good Friday Agreement, because this is the name more widely used and recognized in the United States. Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Congressional Research Service 2 withdrawal from the European Union (EU) in 2020 —or Brexit —has added to divisions within Northern Ireland , renewed questions about Northern Ireland’s constitutional status as part of the UK, and contributed to political instability in the power -sharing institutions. In January 2024, Northern Ireland’s leading unionist party accepted new measures proposed by the UK government to address certain Brexit -related concerns, thereby enabling Northern Ireland’s devolved government to be re established in February 2024 after a two-year suspension . Successive U.S. Administrations and many Me mbers of Congress have supported the Northern Ireland peace process and have encouraged full implementation of the Good Friday Agreement, as well as subsequent accords and initiatives. The Uni ted States has provided aid through the International Fund for Ireland (IFI), which was created in 1986 to encourage economic development and foster reconciliation. Some Members of Congress have been particularly interested in police reforms and human righ ts in Northern Ireland. Some Members of Congress also have demonstrated an interest in Brexit’s implications for Northern Ireland . Figure 1. Map of Northern Ireland (UK) and the Republic of Ireland Source: Graphic created by CRS using data from Esri (2017). The 1998 Peace Agreement Key Elements The Good Friday Agreement is a multilayered and interlocking document, consisting of a political settlement reached by Northern Ireland ’s political parties and an international treaty b etween the UK and Irish governments. At the core of th e Good Friday Agreement is the consent principle — that is, a change in Northern Ireland ’s status can come about only with the consent of the majority Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Congressional Research Service 3 of Northern Ireland’s people, as well as with the c onsent of a majority in Ireland . Although the agreement acknowledged that a substantial section of Northern Ireland’s population and a majority on the island desired a united Ireland, it recognized that the majority of people in Northern Ireland wished to remain part of the UK. If the preference of this majority were to change, the agreement asserted that the UK and Irish governments would have a binding obligation to bring about the wish of the people; thus, the agreement included provisions for future polls to be held in Northern Ireland on its constitutional status , should events warrant. The Good Friday Agreement set out a framework for devolved government —the transfer of specified powers over local governance from London to Belfast —and called for establis hing a Northern Ir eland Assembly and Executive in which unionist and nationalist parties would share power (known as Strand One ). The Good Friday Agreement also contained