out a framework for devolved government —the transfer of specified powers over local governance from London to Belfast —and called for establis hing a Northern Ir eland Assembly and Executive in which unionist and nationalist parties would share power (known as Strand One ). The Good Friday Agreement also contained provisions on several issues viewed as central to the peace process: decommissioning (disarmament) of paramilitary weapons , policing , human rights , UK security n ormalization (demilitarization) , and the stat us of prisoners. Negotiations on many of these areas had been extremely contentious , and the final agreed text thus reflected some degree of “constructive ambiguity .” In addition, the Good Friday Agreement created new “North -South” and “East -West” institutions (Strand Two and Strand Three , respectively). A mong the key institutions called for in these two strands, a North -South Ministe rial Council was established to allow leaders in the northern and southern parts of the island of Ireland to consult and cooperate on cross -border issues. A British - Irish Council also was formed to discuss matters of regional interest; the council comp rises representatives of the two governments and the devolved administrations of Northern Ireland, Scotland, Wales, the Channel Islands, and the Isle of Man. Implementation Voters in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland approved the Good Friday Agreeme nt in separa te referendums on May 22, 1998, but implementing the agreement was difficult . For years, decommissioning and police r eforms were key sticking points that c ontributed to instability in Northern Ireland’s devolved government . Ongoing sectarian st rife and s poradi c violence from dissident repub lican and loyalist groups that refused to accept the peace process also fed mistrust between the unionist and nationalist communities and their respective political parties . Democratic Power-Sharing Institutions As noted above, the Good Friday Agreement mandated power -sharing in the devolved government between unionists and nationalists and called for establishing a new Northern Ireland Assembly and Executive . To ensure neither unionists nor nationali sts could dominate the Assembly (of 108 members at the time) , the agreement required that “key decisions” receive cross -community support (i.e., from a majority of both unionist and nationalist Assembly members ). The Executive would be composed of a first minister, deputy first minister, and other ministers with departmental responsibilities ( e.g., health, education, jobs); positions would be allocated to political parties according to party strength in the Assembly. The first elections to the new Norther n Ireland Assembly took place on June 25, 1998 . The devolution of power from London to Belfast, however, was delayed by unionist concerns about the status of weapons decommissioning . Following 18 months of further nego tiations, authority over local affairs was transferred to the Northern Ireland Assembly and Executive in December 1999 . Over the n ext few years , the issue of decommissioning —especially by the Irish Republican Army (IRA)—contributed to the suspension of the devolved government and the