dissident gr oups in Northern Ireland traditionally has been strongest in communities with high levels of unemployment and economic deprivation. Many observers have long viewed the creation of jobs and economic opportunity as a key part of resolving the conflict in Nor thern Ireland and have supported the IFI as part of the peace process. At times , critics have questioned the IFI ’s effectiveness, viewing certain IFI projects as largely wasteful or as potentially reinforcing sectarianism by requiring project recipients an d attendees to identify their religion or community background in an attempt to ensure cross -community participation.127 Starting in FY2011, successive Administrations allocate d funds from Economic Support Fund (ESF) resources to the IFI (in the absence of a congressional specification) in the form of a grant for IFI activities to support peace and reconciliation programs . The United States provided $2.5 million per year in ESF to the IFI between FY2011 and FY2014 ; $750,000 per year from FY2015 to FY2019 ; $2 million for FY2020 ; $2.5 million for FY2021 ; $3 million for FY2022; and $4 million for FY2023 .128 With the Trump Administration’s decision to pause and review foreign assistance in January 2025 and reported subsequent cancellation of assistance awards, it is unclear what funds, if any, might be allocated for the IFI in the future . Some Members of Congress reportedly have voiced support for retaining U.S. funding for the IFI.129 Author Information Kristin Archick Section Research Manager 127 See, for example, Sean Byrne et al., “Th e Role of the International Fund for Ireland and the European Union Peace II Fund in Reducing Violence and Sectarianism in Northern Ireland,” International Politics , vol. 47, no. 2 (2010), pp. 229-250. 128 As reported for each fiscal year in the U.S. Departm ent of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs’ annual Congressional Budget Justifications. 129 Ray O’Hanlon, “Congress Members Write Trump, Rubio Over IFI,” Irish Echo , September 3, 2025. Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Congressional Research Service R46259 · VERSION 17 · UPDATED 27 Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.