to Parliament “by command” of the sovereign. See UK Parliament, “About Command Papers, ” https://www.parliament.uk/ about/ how/ publications/ government/ . 16 Shawn Pogatchnik, “DUP Agrees to Drop Boycott of Northern Ireland Power -Sharing,” Politico , January 30, 2024; Jayne McCormack and Finn Purdy, “Stormont: Assembly to Sit on Saturday as DUP Boycott Ends,” BBC News , Februar y 1, 2024. 17 Brendan Hughes and Matt Fox, “Stormont: Michelle O’Neill Makes History as Nationalist First Minister,” BBC News, February 3, 2024; William Booth and Amanda Ferguson, “Northern Ireland Gets Its First Sinn Fein First Minister in Historic Shift,” Washington Post , February 3, 2024. 18 Margaret Canning, “Northern Ireland Businesses Welcome Prospect of Corporation Tax Devolution Contained in DUP Deal,” Belfast Telegraph , January 31, 2024; Northern Ireland Office, “UK Government Confirms £3.3bn Spending Settlement for Restored Northern Ireland Executive,” press release, February 13, 2024. Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Congressional Research Service 9 Sectarian Divisions Northern Ireland remains a largely divided society , with Protestant and Catholic communities existing largely in parallel. Schools and public housing developments in Northern Ireland remain mostly s ingle -identity communities. In March 2022, the Northern Ireland Assembly passed legislation to increase the number of integrated sc hool places and establish targets for the number of children educated in int egrated schools.19 For the 202 5-2026 academic year , out of roughly 1,100 nursery, primary, and post -primary schools in Northern Ireland, there were 7 6 formally integrated schools, educating about 8% of pupils.20 In some areas in Northern Ireland , peace wal ls separate Protestant and Catholic ne ighborhoods . Estimates of the number of peace walls vary depending on the definition . Northern Ireland’s Departments of Justice and Housing have responsibility for around 60 peace walls ; when other types of structures are included —such as fences, gates, and clos ed roads —the number of physical barriers separating Protestant and Catholic communities is estimated at over 100.21 Northern Ireland ’s Executive has been working to remove the peace walls since 2013 . Although some surveys of public attitudes indicate growing support for removing the walls, concerns about safety and security also remain in some communities.22 Sectarian di visions may be apparent during the a nnual summer marching season , when many unionist cultural and religious organizations hold parades commemorating Protestant history. Although th e vast majority of these annual parades are not contentious, some are held through or close to areas populated m ainly by Catholics (some of whom perceive such unionist parades as triumphalist and intimidating). During the Troubles, the marching season often provoked fierce violence. Many Protestant organizations view the existing Parades Commission , which arbitrates disputes over parade routes , as largely biased in favor of Catholics and have repeatedly argued for abolishing the commission .23 Efforts over the years to address the issue of parading and related protests have stalled repeatedly. In 2016, a Commission on Flags, Identity, Culture , and Tradition was established