of Northern Ireland (PSNI) was established to replace the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) , Northern Ireland’s former, 92% Protestant police force . Catholics viewed the RUC as an en forcer of Protestant domination , and human rights organization s accused the RUC of brutality and collusion with loyalist paramilitary groups. Defenders of the RUC pointed to its tradition of loyalty and discipline and its record in fighting terrorism. In accordance with policing recommendations made by an independent commission (known as the Patten Commission) , increasing the proportion of Catholic officers (from 8% to 30% in 10 years) was a key goal for the new PSNI. To help fulfill t his goal, the PSNI introduced a 50-50 Catholic/Protestant recruitment process .7 For several years , Sinn Fein refused to participate in the Policing Board, a democratic oversight body established as part of the police reforms . Many viewed Sinn Fein’s stanc e as discouraging Catholics from joining the PSNI and preventing the nationalist community from fully accepting the new PSNI . In 2007, however , Sinn Fein members voted to support the police and join the Policing Board. Sinn Fein ’s decision was seen as hist oric, given the IRA ’s traditional view of the 5 “IRA Statement in Full,” BBC News, July 25, 2005. 6 Mark Davenport, “IRA Arms: What Next for NI Politics?,” BBC News , September 26, 2005. 7 See A New Beginning: Policing in Northern Ireland , Report of the Independent Commission on Policing for Northern Ireland, September 1999, http://cain.ulst.ac.uk/ issues/ police/ patten/ patten99.pdf . Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Congressional Research Service 5 police as a legitimate target. In 2010, the DUP and Sinn Fein reached an accord (the Hillsborough Agreement) to devolve policing and justice powers from London to Belfast. The 50 -50 recruitment process for Cath olic and Protestant PSNI officers concluded in 2011 . According to the most recent data available , Catholic officers currently make up around 32% of the PSNI’s nearly 6,300 officers.8 Concerns persist that not enough Catholics ar e seeking to join the PSNI (due to both lingering suspicions about the police within the Catholic/nationalis t community and ongoing fears that C atholic police recruits may be targeted by dissident republicans opposed to the peace process ). PSNI officials have warned that curren t overall staffing levels are insufficient. In September 2024, the PSNI outlined a plan to increase the size of the force to 7,000 officers by 2028 , although b udget constraints reportedly have impacted implementation . Sinn Fein also has called for a return of the 50 -50 recruitment process, but the DUP has expressed opposition t o a practice that it view s as discriminatory .9 Security Normalization The Good Friday Agreement called for “as early a return as possible to normal security arrangements in Northern Ireland,” including the removal of security installations. In February 2007, t he last of more than 100 armored watchtowers in Northern Ireland was dismantled