- left) 8 -4 Traditional Unionist Voice (TUV ; hard-line unionist, right -wing) 1 — People Before Profit Alliance (PBPA; nonsectarian , left-wing) 1 — Independent (unionist) 2 +1 Source: BBC News, “Northern Ireland Assembly Election Results 2022,” https://www.bbc.com/ news/ election/ 2022/ northern -ireland/ results . Main Political Parties in Northern Ireland Sinn Fein. Sinn Fein has been the l argest nationalist party in Northern Ireland since 2003. It advocates for a united Ireland. Sinn Fein is an all -island party and has a political presence in Northern Ireland and Ireland (with members in both the Northern Ireland Assembly and the Irish Parliament). Historic ally, Sinn Fein was the political party associated with the Irish Republican Army (IRA) . A left -wing party, Sinn Fein traditionally has received considerable support from working -class Catholics. Mary Lou McDonald has led Sinn Fein since 2018 . Michelle O’Neill has led Sinn Fein in the Northern Ireland Assembly since 2017 ; she is also the party’s deputy l eader. Democratic Unionist Party (DUP). The DUP has been the l argest unionist party in Northern Ireland since 2003. It enjoys considerable Protestant support and str ongly f avors union with the United Kingdom (UK). The party initially opposed the 1998 Good Friday Agreement, viewing virtually any compromise with Irish nationalists as a net loss for unionists. Socially conservative, the DUP opposes abort ion and same -sex marriage. Gavin Robinson has led the DUP since late March 2024 ( he initially served in an interim capacity and was confirmed as party leader in May 2024) . Alliance Party. The Alliance Party is a n onsectarian, cross -community party that is centrist and libe ral in political orientation . It argues for reforming the devolved government’s power -sharing rules to promote greater stability and reflect growing support for nonsectarian parties . The Alliance Party has been l ed by Naomi Long since 2016. Ulster Unionist Party (UUP). The UUP is a s maller, center -right Protestant party that supports union with the UK. It was the lead unionist party involved in the negotiations on the Good Frid ay Agreement. Jon Burrows has led the UUP since January 2026. Social Democratic and Labo ur Party (SDLP). The SDLP is a s maller, center -left Catholic party that supports a united Ireland achieved through peaceful means. It was the lead nationalist party involved in the negotiations on the Good Friday Agreement. Claire Hanna has led the SDLP since October 2024 . Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Congressional Research Service 8 2024 Reestablishment of the Devolved Government Following the February 2023 Windsor Framework , the UK government sought to address the DUP’s remaining concerns about the post -Brexit arrangements for Northern Ireland an d facilitate the establishment of a new devolved government. In late January 2024, the DUP accepted a package of measures proposed by the UK government —set out in a new Safeguarding the Union command paper —that outline d some operational changes