EU and noted that doing so should be “contingent” upon a UK -EU agreement that “fully protects and preserves the Good Friday Agreement.” International Fund for Ireland The United States has provided development aid to Northern Ireland primarily through the International Fund for Ireland ( IFI), which was created in 1986. T he UK and Irish governments established the IF I based on objectives in the Anglo -Irish Agreement of 1985, but the IFI is an independent entity. It supports economic regeneration and social development projects in areas most affected by the conflict in Northern Ireland and in the border areas of the Re public of Ireland; in doing so, the IFI has sought t o foster dialogue and reconciliation . According to the U.S. State Department, as of 2022, the United States had contributed more than $549 million to the IFI since its establishment.125 The EU, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand have provided funding for the IFI as well. In the 1980s and 1990s, U.S. appropriations for the IFI averaged around $23 million annually; in the 2000s, U.S. appropriations averaged $18 million each year .126 According to the IFI , the vast majority of projects supported with seed funding have been located in disadvantaged areas that have suffered from high unemployment, a lack of facilities, and little private sector investment. In its first two decades, IFI projects in Northern I reland and the southern border counties focused on economic and business development and sectors such as President Trump to Appoint a Special Envoy to Northern Ireland,” March 7, 2025; and Mark Hennessy, “Trump Urged to Appoint NI Special Envoy to Support US Interests After Kennedy Departure,” Irish Time s, March 10, 2025. 123 The White House, “ Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on President Biden’s Upcoming Virtual Bilateral with Ireland, ” March 17, 2021 ; Ray O’Hanlon, “Biden, Reps. Welcome Framework Deal,” Irish Echo , March 1, 2023. 124 See, for example, Office of Representative Nancy Pelosi, “Pelosi Statement on Windsor Framework,” press release, February 27, 2023 . 125 U.S. Department of State, U.S. Relations with Ireland , fact sheet, June 2, 2022. 126 The Anglo -Irish Agreement Support Act of 1986 ( P.L. 99 -415) authorizes U.S. contributions to the International Fund for Ireland. Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Congressional Research Service 26 tourism, agriculture, and technology. In 2006, the IFI announced it wou ld begin shifting its focus toward projects aimed at promoting community reconci liation and overcoming past divisions. Successive U.S. Administrations and some Members of Congress have backed the IFI as a means to promote economic development and encourage divided communities to work together. Support for paramilitary and dissident gr oups in Northern Ireland traditionally has been strongest in communities with high levels of unemployment and economic deprivation. Many observers have long viewed the creation of jobs and economic opportunity as a key part of resolving the conflict in Nor thern Ireland and have supported the IFI as