https://publications.parliament.uk/ pa/bills/ cbill/ 58-03/0010/ en/220010en.pdf . 28 James Clarke, “Was the Bloody Sunday Report Value for Money?,” BBC News, June 14, 2010. 29 Edward Burke, “The Trouble with Northern Ireland Legacy Cases,” Royal United Services Institute (RUSI), April 22, 2021; and Claire Mills and David Torrance, Investigation of Former Armed Forces Personnel Who Served in Northern Irela nd, UK House of Commons Library, May 18, 2022 . 30 The 2014 Stormont House Agreement is available at https://www.gov.uk/ government/ publications/ the-stormont - house -agreement . 31 Anne Cadwallader, “Bereaved Families Have a Right to the Truth,” Irish Times , December 31, 2 015; Gareth Gordon, “Troubles Legacy Consultation Launched by Government,” BBC News, May 11, 2018. Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Congressional Research Service 11 The Northern Ireland Troubles (Legacy and Reconciliation) Act 2023 In May 2022, the UK government of then -Prime Minister Boris Johnson introduced the Northern Ireland Troubles (Legacy and Reconciliation) Bill in the UK Parlia ment ; the bill emphasiz ed information recovery over legal and judicial processes. UK officials argued that the bill would prioritize providing information to victims and families, protect military veterans from prosecution, and encourage wider societal reconciliation.32 Despite considerable opposition to the legislation within and outside of Northern Ireland (discussed below), the UK House of Commons passed the bill in July 2022, by a vote of 282 to 217. The bill was supported mostly by the then- majority Conservative Party. The t hen-opposition Labour Party and ot hers voted against the bill; no Members of Parliament from Northern Ireland supported it. In January 2023, the UK government of then-Prime Minister Rishi Sunak (who had taken over as Conservative Party leader and Prime Minister in October 2022) introduced several amendments to the bill, largely in response to concerns raised by victims and survivors. Following some delays and resistance in the UK House of Lords, the UK Parliament gave final approval to the bill in September 2023. The bill subsequently received royal assent and became UK law.33 Among other measures, the legislation (commonly referred to as the Legacy Act) establishe d a new Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery (ICRIR) ch arged with reviewing Troubles -related deaths an d cases of serious injury and providing information to victims and families . The Legacy Act also establish ed a conditional immunity scheme that would provide immunity from prosecution for Troubles -related offe nses for individuals that cooperate d with the ICRIR . Furthermore, the act banned criminal investigations into Troubles -related incidents by any UK authority other than the ICRIR, ended most coroner inquests, and prohibited future civil claims for Troubles -related misconduct. The act mandated a ll Troubles -related investigations to cease, except those in support of prosecutions already underway , by May 1, 2024 (the same day the ICRIR began work ).34 Although UK veterans groups and campaigners largely welcomed the Legacy Act, victims groups and human rights advocates were critical and all Northern Ireland political parties