18 months of further nego tiations, authority over local affairs was transferred to the Northern Ireland Assembly and Executive in December 1999 . Over the n ext few years , the issue of decommissioning —especially by the Irish Republican Army (IRA)—contributed to the suspension of the devolved government and the reinstatement of direct rule from London sever al times between 2000 and 2002 . (See “Decommissioning ,” below .) Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Congressional Research Service 4 In 2007, after a nearly five -year suspension, Northern Ireland’s devolved government was restored following a landmark deal between the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) —which strongly supports Northern Ireland’s continued integration as part of th e UK —and Sinn Fein, the staunchly nationalist political party traditionally associated with the IRA. Regularly scheduled Assembly elections in 2011 and 2016 produced successive power -sharing governments , also led by the DUP and Sinn Fein. At the same time, various incidents —including protests in 2012 and 2013 over the use of flags and emblems and the 2015 arrest of a Sinn Fein leader in connection with the murder of a former IRA member —periodically threatened the devolved government’s stability. Brexit and other contentious issues led to the collapse of the power -sharing institutions between 2017 and 2020, and again between 2022 and 2024 (see “Political Developments” ). Decommissioning For years, decommissioning of paramilitary weapons was a prominent challenge in the implementation of the Good Friday Agreement. The text of the agreement states , “those who hold office should use only democratic, non -violent means, and those who do not should be excluded or removed from office.” Unionists were adamant that the IRA must fully decommission its weapons. The IRA had been observing a cease -fire since 1997, but it viewed decommissioning as tantamount to surrender and had long resisted such calls. Progress toward full IRA decommissioning was slow and incremental . A key milestone came in July 2005, when the IRA declar ed an end to its armed campaign and instructed all members to pursue objectives through “exclusively peaceful means .”5 In September 2005, Northern Ireland ’s Independent International Commis sion on Decommissioning (IICD) announced that the IRA had put all of its arms “beyond use, ” asserting that the IRA weaponry dismantled or made inoperable matched estimates pr ovided by the security forces.6 The IICD also confirmed decommissioning by other republican groups a nd loyalist organizations. The IICD concluded its work in 2011. Policing Although recognized as a central element in achieving a comprehensive peace in Northern Ireland, new policing structures and arrangements were a frequent point of contention between unionists and nationalists. In 2001, a new Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) was established to replace the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) , Northern Ireland’s former, 92% Protestant police force . Catholics viewed the RUC as an en forcer of Protestant domination , and human rights organization s accused the RUC of brutality and collusion with loyalist paramilitary groups.