the EU were exaggerating the security concerns about the border. Those of this view also noted that, al though the Good Friday Agreement commits the UK to normalizing security arrangements (including the removal of 64 Government of the UK, New Withdrawal Agreement and Political Declaration , October 19, 2019, https://www.gov.uk/ government/ publications/ new-withdrawal -agreement -and-political -declaration ; and Government of the UK, New Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland and Political Declaration , October 19, 2019, https://www.gov.uk/ government/ publications/ new-protocol -on-irelandnorthern -ireland -and-political -declaration . 65 See, for example, Henry McDonald, “Police Chief Says ‘Hard Brexit’ Irish Border Would Be Paramilitary Target,” Guardian , February 7, 2018. 66 Sarah Lyall, “On Irish Border, Worries That Brexit Will Undo a Hard -Won Peace,” New York Times , August 5, 2017; Maeve Sheehan, “Irish Army Identifies 300 Border Crossing Points,” Belfast Telegraph , December 17, 2018. Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Congressional Research Service 17 security installations “consistent with the level of threat” ), it does not explicitly require an open border. The Irish government and many officials and stakeholders in Northern Ireland , as well as elsewhere in the UK, argued that an open border had become intrinsic to peace and to ensu ring fulfillment of the Good Friday Agreement ’s provisions on north -south cooperation on cross - border issues ( such as transport ation , agriculture, and the environment).67 The Northern Ireland Protocol and Implementation Challenges Under the terms of the protocol agreed by the UK and EU , Northern Ireland would remain legally in the UK customs territory but would maint ain regulatory alignment with the EU. The protocol’s provisions eliminated the need for checks on trade in goods at the land border between Northern Ireland and Ireland but essentially created a regulatory and customs border in the Irish Sea between Northe rn Ireland and Great Britain (often termed the Irish Sea border ). Any physical checks necessary to ensure regulatory and customs compliance for goods moving from Great Britain to Northern Ireland would be conducted at ports or points of entry away from the politically sensitive land border between Northern Ireland and Ireland. The DUP and other unionists strongly opposed the post -Brexit arrangements in the protocol , contending they would jeopardize Northern Ireland’s economy, participation in the UK’s internal market, and position as part of the UK. Even before Brexit, demographic trends in Northern Ireland (in which Catholics now outnumber Protestants) and changes in societal attitudes (especially among young people, who may not be as wedded to traditi onal religious or ethnic identities) were causing some in the unionist community to perceive a loss in unionist traditions and dominance. The initial post -Brexit trade arrangements arguably enhanced a sense of unionist disenfranchisement , partly by raising concerns that Northern Ireland could be drawn closer to the Republic of Ireland’s economic orbit and this could be a precursor to a united Ireland.68 After the Northern Ireland protocol took effect on January 1, 2021, implementation