in 1949. The Council of Europe is an entirely separate organization from t he EU. 11 The Identity and Language (Northern Ireland) Act 2022 received royal assent in December 2022 . Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Congressional Research Service 6 Political Developments Many analysts view implementation of the m ain aspects of the Good Friday Agreement (and subsequent agreements) as having been completed. At the same time, tensions and distrust have persist ed between the unionist and nationalist communities and their respective political parties. Since 2007, Assembly elections have resulted in successive power -sharing governments led by the DUP and Sinn Fein (respectively , the largest unionist and nationalist parties in Northern Ireland since 2003) . Brexit and other contentious issues since 2016 have affected the stability of Northern Ireland’s power -sharing institutions, which collaps ed between 2017 and 2020, and again between 2022 and 2024 (also see, “Implications of Brexit,” below). The May 2022 Assembly Election In February 2022, then -First Minister Paul Givan of the DUP resigned to protest the post -Brexit trade and customs arrangements for Northern Ireland and the slow progress in resolving implementation difficulties . Contained in a protocol to the UK’s withdrawal agreement with the EU (formally approved by the UK and EU in January 2020) , the post -Brexit arrangements for Northern Ireland were designed to maintain an open border on the island of Ireland and to help preserve the peace process while respecting the rules of the EU single market and customs union. Under terms set out in the protocol, Northern Ireland remain ed legally in the UK customs territory bu t practically aligned with EU single market rules for goods. Although the DUP backed Brexit (it was the only major Northern Ireland political party to do so), the DUP and other unionists viewed the terms in the protoc ol as dividing Northern Ireland from the rest of the UK (i.e., Great Britain) and threatening the UK’s constitutional integrity. Implementation of the protocol —which began in January 202 1—also led to some trade disruptions between Northern Ireland and Grea t Britain. Givan ’s resignation as First Minister forced then-Deputy First Minister Michelle O’Neill , of Sinn Fein, to step down. Northern Ireland’s first minister and deputy first m inister positions are considered a joint office; if one resigns, the other also ceases to hold office. As a result, the Northern Ireland Executive was unable to meet or make decisions ( the Northern Ireland Assembly was able to continue working on legislation already in progress ).12 Northern Ireland’s r egularly scheduled Assembly election was held on May 5, 2022. For the first time in Northern Ireland’s history, Sinn Fein won the largest number of seats in the 90 -member Assembly and surpassed the DUP as the largest party in the Assembly (see Table 1).13 Decreased support for the DUP appear ed to be driven by dissatisfaction with the party’s leadership on Brexit and internal party divisions. Sinn Fein