Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges , and U.S. Interests Updated March 5, 2026 Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov R46259 Congressional Research Service SUMMARY Northern Ireland: The Peace Process, Ongoing Challenges, and U.S. Interests Between 1969 and 1999, roughly 3,500 peop le died as a result of poli tical violence in Nort hern Ireland, which is one of four component “nations” of the United Kingdom (UK). Often referred to as “the Troubles,” the conflict has its origins in the 1921 division of Ireland . At its core, the conflict has reflected a struggle b etween the different national, cultural, and religious identities of Northern Ireland’s two dominant communities: unionists , or Protestants who largely define themselves as British and support Northern Ireland’s continued incorporation in the UK, and natio nalists , or Catholics who consider themselves Irish and may favor a united Ireland. Successive U.S. A dministrations and many Members of Congress have actively support ed the Northern Ireland peace process . U.S. development aid provided through the International Fund for Ireland (IFI) has sought to encourage economic development and reconciliation . Congressional hearings have focused on the pea ce process, human r ights, and addressing Northern Ireland’s legacy of violence (often termed dealing with th e past ). Some Members have expressed interest in how Brexit —the UK’s withdrawal as a member of the European Union (EU) in January 2020 —is affect ing Northern Ireland. The Peace Agreement: Progress to Date and Ongoing Challenges In 1998, the UK and Irish gov ernments and key Northern Ire land political parties reached a negotiated political settlement. The resulting Good Friday Agreement, or Belfast Agre ement, recognized that a change in Northern Ireland’s constitutional status as part of the UK can come about only with the consent of a majority of the people in Northern Ireland (as well as with the consent of a majority in Ireland). The agreement called for devolved government —the transfer of specified power s from London to Belfast —with a Northern Ireland A ssem bly and Executive in which unionist and nationalist parties would share power. It also contained provisions on decommissioning (disarmament) of paramilitary weapons , policing, human rights, UK security normalization (demilitarization ), and the status of prisoners. Despite a mu ch-improved security situation since 1998 , implementing the p eace agreement proved challen ging. In 2007, the pro-British Democratic Unionist Party (DUP ) and Sinn Fein, the nationalist political party traditionally associated with the Irish Republican Army (IRA), reached a landmark power -sharing deal. Tensions and distrust persisted , however , and Brexit and other contentious issues have hindered the functioning of Northern Ireland’s government. Assembly elections took place in M ay 2022 , but the DUP blocked the work of the Assembly and prevented the formation of a new Executive to protest the post-Brexit arrangements for Northern Irelan d, which the DUP and other unionists viewed as dividing Northern Ireland from the rest of the UK and th reatening the UK’s constitutional integrity.