improving community as sets that businesses need to succeed. ” See EDA, “Key Definitions,” https://eda.gov/ performance/ key-definitions . 68 EDA, “ EDA Performance Measurement and Program Evaluation,” https://www.eda.gov/ performance . 69 EDA, “Investment Priorities,” https://www.eda.gov/ funding/ investment -priorities . 70 EDA defines incubators as A program, often sponsored by a university or nonprofit organization, that provides support and guidance to start -up companies during the embryonic phases of their development to support job creation and retention. Support can in clude technical assistance, facility access, financing, mentorship, and networking opportunities. See EDA, “Economic Development Glossary,” https://www.eda.gov/ about/ economic -develop ment -glossary . 71 DOC, EDA, FY2024 Congressional Budget Justification , p. 154, https://www.commerce.gov/ sites/ default/ files/ 2023 - 03/EDA -FY2024 -Congressional -Budget -Submission.pdf . 72 42 U.S.C. §§3121 et seq. 73 EDA’s website (“Find Open Funding”) lists open funding opportunities. See https://www.eda.gov/ funding/ funding - opportunities/ . 74 This report does not analyze EDA’s grant awards by program. For an analysis of EDA funding awarded by program and other analysis, see Brett Theodos et al., “ The Economic Development Administration’s Programs and Projects Types —EDA Program Evaluation ,” The Urban Institute, October 2021, p. 6, https://www.urban.org/ sites/ default/ files/ (continued...) Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 15 T able 3. Summary of Recent Major EDA Programs Program Name (CFDA No.) Description Project Examples Public Works (11.300) The Public Works program is designed to fund physical infrastructure projects such as water and sewer systems improvements, industrial parks, business incubator facilities, expansion of port and harbor facilities, skill - training facilities, and brownfields redevelopment. • Construction of a workforce training center. • Water and wastewater improvements in connection with the development of an industrial park. Economic Adjustment Assistance (EAA) (11.307) The EAA program assists communities and regions affec ted by natural disasters, natural resource depletion, mass layoffs, and other severe economic shocks caused by structural impacts to regional economies. Revolving Loan Funds (RLFs) are capitalized by EAA grants. See CRS In Focus IF11449, Economic Development Revolving Loan Funds (ED-RLFs), by Julie M. Lawhorn . • Capitalization of a Revolving Loan Fund for underserved regional businesses. • A study to evaluate how to develop, sustain, and promote businesses including retail, restaurants, services, and others in a downtown area. • Construction of a healthcare simulation lab and telemedicine space at a community college. • Funding for a regional disaster recovery coordinator. EAA —Assistance to Coal Comm unities (ACC), Assistance to Nuclear Closure Communities (NCC) initiatives , and Disaster Economic Recovery programs (11.307) The ACC and NCC initiatives support communities and regions that have been negatively impacted by changes in the coal economy or by nuclear plant closures, respectively. In addition to ongoing annual appropriations for the discretionary EAA grant program, Congress has authorized supplemental appropriations for EAA ACC and NCC initiatives as well as for post - disaster economic recovery and COVID -19 economic recovery efforts. EDA makes ACC and NCC funding available through the Notice of Funding Opportunity