of rural, small, and tribal communities and the needs of areas experiencing economic distress resulting from changes in energy and manufacturing industries. EDRA authorized assistance for regional economies that may be preparing for and responding to natural disasters, plant closures, broadband challenges, trade dynamics, and other problems and opportunities as well. 176 For a list of hearings in the 117th and 118th Congresses related to the reauthorization of EDA, see Table C-2. 177 House Committee on T &I, Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management, Regional Commissions: A Review of Federal Economic Development Program Effectiveness , 118th Cong., 1st sess., October 19, 2023, Serial No. 118 –32, pp. 2 -3, 9, 35, https://www.congress.gov/ 118/chrg/ CHRG - 118hhrg56927/ CHRG -118hhrg56927.pdf . Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 41 For additional information about EDRA, see CRS Rep ort R48516, Economic Development Reauthorization Act (EDRA) of 2024 , by Julie M. Lawhorn . Policy Considerations The following policy considerations center on the extent of innovation and technology -led economic development activities in EDA’s investment portfolio; EDA’s workforce; and the TAAF program in light of current trade and economic dynamics and ongoing trade negotiations . Preparing for Future Industries and EDA’s Role in Federal Innovation Policy178 In deliberations leading up to the reauthorization of EDRA, Members of Congress noted that o ne of the r eason s for reauthorizing EDA was to address “changes in industries, technology, and trade patterns” that have occurred since prior re authorization legislation was enacted.179 Such changes provided both challenges and opportunities for regional economies to modernize their infrastructure, enhance workforce capabilities, and make technology -based economic development investments . EDA defines “technology -based economic development” as economic development planning or implementation projects that foster regional knowledge ecosystems that support entrepreneurs and startups, including the commercialization of new technol ogies, that are creating technology -driven businesses and high -skilled, well - paying jobs of the future. 180 One of EDA’s investment priorities is “innovation and entrepreneurship ,” which is generally associated with technology -based economic development. Congress recentl y authorized new EDA programs to further prepare regions and workers for innovation - and technology -based economic development, and for “future industries.”181 Innovation - and technology -led economic 178 As previously noted , EDA’s involvement in innovation a nd technology broadly includes the administr ation of competitive grant programs (e.g., the Build to Scale (B2S), SPRINT Challenge, and the Accelerate Response and Recovery (R2) Network Challenge programs described above and in Appendix A ), workforce development and technical assistance initiatives (e.g., the STEM Talent Challenge and University Centers), and coordination with other federal agencies on regional innovation strat egies (e.g., NACIE), among other activities . For a review of EDA and other federal programs for regional innovation, see CRS Report R47495, Regional Innovation: Federal Programs and Issues for Consideration , by Julie M. Lawhorn et al. For a list of CRS analysts associated with science, t echnology, and innovation policy, see CRS