select aspects of the Build to Scale (B2S) program in particular. The memo noted that EDA’s expertise includes leading regional economic development and related expertise, while NIST and other agencies are generally considered lead agencies in terms of technical expertise on innovation and research and development. The hearing charter further no ted that the matching requirements associated with the competitive B2S program may limit participation by economically distressed and rural communities due to limited resources in some communities. 187 The White House, “Winning the Race: America’s AI Action Plan,” July 2025, pp. 1, 7, https://www.whitehouse.gov/ wp-content/ uploads/ 2025/ 07/Americas -AI-Action -Plan.pdf . 188 As of September 2025, EDA recommends that Public Works EAA projects involving workforce training “should include artificial intelligence (AI) skill development where relevant and feasible .” See EDA, “FY20 25 EDA Public Works and Economic Adjustment Assistance NOFO ,” p. 18, https://grants.gov/ search -results -detail/ 346815 . 189 EDA, “ EDA Support for the Administration ’s AI Action Plan,” December 22, 2205, https://www.eda.gov/ news/ blog/ 2025/ 12/22/eda-support -administrations -ai-action -plan. 190 CRS In Focus IF12430, Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms , by Kyla H. Kitamura . Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 44 authorizations lapse.”191 The workforce grants will use a sectoral partnership approach and will address “worker displacement and shifting skill requirements for entry -level roles .”192 Congress may wish to review whether, and to what extent, EDA’s AI initiative differs from or aligns with the agency’s statutorily established investment priorities (see “ Investment Priorities, FY201 2-Present ”). One of the EDA’s five investment priorities is “workforce” and the agency has previously engaged in efforts to support sectoral partnerships through the Good Jobs Challenge (FY2021 -FY2024) . Another EDA investment priority is “i nnovation and entrepreneurship ,” which includes fostering “ the commercialization of new technologies that are creating technology -driven businesses and high -skilled, well -paying jobs of the future. ”193 EDA noted that the Trump Administration’s AI plan “recognizes the need for industry -driven training programs that address workforce needs tied to AI infrastructure investments.”194 In recent decades, EDA has typically supported community -driven projects based on the unique set of opportunities and challenges presented by a particular regional economy, which varies from place to place and may include a range of different industries. For instance, EDA describes its work by noting that it “provides economic development financi al assistance to communities so they can encourage innovation and entrepreneurship in a way that works best for them. ”195 While economists lack consensus on the various ways that AI may impact national and regional economies and job markets, many point out that the labor effects of AI introduction and expansion may have implications that vary depending on industr y, skills and region (geography). For a summary of perspectives on AI and labor considerations , see CRS In Focus IF12762, The Macroeconomic Effects of Artificial Intelligence , by Lida R. Weinstock and Paul Tierno . EDA’s Workforce As Congress considers