to risk capital. B2S is composed of the Venture Challenge and the Capital Challenge. The Venture Challenge supports entrepreneurship support programs and other models to accelerate high -growth entrepreneurship activities. T he Capital Challenge provides operational support to help organizations and regions expand access to risk capital. EDA’s OIE administers the B2S program, which is authorized under Section 27 of the Stevenson -Wydler Technology Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. §3722). • Implementing regional strategies that support entrepreneurship, technology development, commercialization, and increased access to capital for biomedical products, agricultural technologies, advanced manufacturing, and other technology - and innovation -based industries. • Operational support for a Prototype -to-Production Hardware Accelerator program to help entrepreneurs scale their business and manufacture their products. STEM Talent Challenge/ STEM Apprenticeships (Section 30, formerly Section 28) (11.023) The STEM Talent Challenge program funds efforts that expand career pathways and meet employers’ needs for a STEM capable workforce. EDA’s OIE administers the STEM Talent Challenge program, which is authorized under Section 30 of the Stevenson -Wydler Technology Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. §3723). As of the date of publication, EDA indicates that f unding is not available to continue this program. • Development of a virtual smart factory environment to build advanced manufacturing skills and facilitate workforce development. Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms (TAAF) (11.313) EDA partners with nonprofit or university - affiliated Trade Adjustment Assistance Centers (TAACs) to pr ovide technical assistance to import -impacted U.S. manufacturing, production and service firms. TAAF is authorized under the Trade Act of • Technical assistance for import - impacted companies to develop business recovery plans and strategies such as new product lines, updated information Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 17 Program Name (CFDA No.) Description Project Examples 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. §§2341 et seq.). As of the date of publication, EDA indicates that f unding is not availabl e to continue this program. systems, and revised marketing campaigns. Recompete Pilot (Section 29) (11.306) The Recompete Pilot program was established by the CHIPS and Science Act (P.L. 117 -167, enacted August 8, 2022; 15 U.S.C. §3722b). The program provide s grants and cooperative agreements to persistently distressed areas. EDA administer s two types of Recompete awards: (1) strategy development grants and (2) strategy implementation grants. • Funding for multiple projects to provide resources and training to residents impacted by the decline of coal mining. • Funding for multiple projects to connect residents from distressed neighborhoods to good-paying jobs. Regional Technology and Innovation Hubs (Tech Hubs) (Section 28) (11.036) The Tech Hubs program was established by the CHIPS and Science Act ( P.L. 117 -167, enacted August 8, 2022; 15 U.S.C. §3722a). The focus of the program is to support technology development, job creati on, and expanding U.S. innovation capacity. The program also seeks to develop hubs in areas that are not “leading technology centers.” EDA administer s two types of Tech Hubs awards: (1) strategy development grants and (2) strategy implementation grants.