Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 21 EDRA updated EDA’s economic distress eligibility criteria for certain programs.91 In January 2026, EDA indicated that implementing these changes will take another year and involve stakeholder input.92 Select Grant Requirements —Public Works and Economic Adjustment Assistance Programs The following select grant program requirements apply to two of the EDA’s economic development assistance programs, the Public Works and Economi c Adjustment Assistance (PWEAA) programs.93 Economic Distress Criteria For a project to be eligible for assistance under the PWEAA programs, The project shall be located in an area that, on the date of submission of the application, meets one or more of t he following criteria: • Per capita income that is, for the most recent period for which data are available, 80% or less of the national average per capita income; • An unemployment rate that is, for the most recent 24 -month period for which data are availabl e, at least one percentage point greater than the national average unemployment rate; • Median household income that is 80 % or less of the national average; • A workforce participation rate that is 90 % or less of the national average or a prime age employment gap of five % or more; • Expected economic dislocation and distress from energy industry transitions ; or • A special need arising from unemployment, underemployment, or economic adjustment problems .94 These criteria are also used for the EDD designation. An EDD must “contain at least one geographic area that fulfills the economic distress criteria” among other requirements.95 For additional information about area eligibility and measures of economic dist ress in PWEDA, see CRS In Focus IF12074, Areas of Economic Distress for EDA Activities and Programs , by Julie M. Lawhorn . 91 For additional information about EDA’s economic dist ress criteria, see CRS In Focus IF12074, Areas of Economic Distress for EDA Activities and Programs , by Julie M. Lawhorn . 92 Page, Testimony in Smarter Spending, Stronger Results: Reducing Duplication an d Ensuring Effectiveness Through Economic Development Reforms , p.4. 93 See agency regulations (13 C.F.R. Chapter III ) for detailed program requirements. See also EDA, “EDA Informational Brochure,” https://www.eda.gov/ sites/ default/ files/ filebase/ archives/ 2021/pdf/about/ EDA -TriFold - 2017.pdf . 94 42 U.S.C. §§3121 et seq . EDA’s regulations describe the economic distress criteria at 13 C.F.R. §30 1, Subpart C — Economic Distress Criteria . 95 42 U.S.C. §3171 . The EDA also encourages University Centers (42 U.S.C. § 3147(a)(2)(D)) to provide services that benefit distressed are as in their region (13 C.F.R. § 306.5(a)). Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 22 Comprehensive Economic Development Strategies (CEDS) The CEDS is a locally develo ped, long -term regional economic development plan. Projects must serve an area that has a CEDS or equivalent strategy in order to be eligible for PWEAA funding .96 However, t he CEDS requirement may be waived in some instances.97 The EDA provides funding