https://eda.gov/ success -stories/ disaster/ stories/ moberly -mo.htm . 60 See, for example, EDA, “FY 2023 Disaster Supplemental NOFO ,” https://grants.gov/ search -results -detail/ 347414 . Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 13 project . EDA did not include allocations to its regional offices in its FY2025 disaster recovery NOFO, which had previously been included.61 Office of Disaster Recovery and Resilience (ODRR) EDRA established the Office of Disaster Recovery and Resilience (ODRR) in 2025 and authorized it to direct and implement the EDA’s post -disaster economic recovery responsibili ties.62 As noted above, as of January 2026, Congress had approved EDA’s reorganization plan to establish the Office of Disaster Recovery and Resilience.63 EDRA also directed the EDA to continue its existing National Disaster Recovery Framework (NDRF) roles and establish a Disaster Team to be composed of ODRR and non -EDA staff.64 EDRA allowed EDA to hire temporary personnel for ODRR responsibilities and to co nvert them to EDA competitive service positions under certain circumstances. The expanded hiring authorities expire on September 30, 2029 . The ODRR helped design the FY2025 disaster recovery NOFO.65 EDA Performance Metrics EDA collects and measures performance according to two Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) goals . The first goal is connected to infrastructure investments and the second goal is connected to non -infrastructure investments.66 By example, Public W orks is an infrastructure program , and B2S is generally classified as a non -infrastructure program. The agency’s goals and associated metrics are detailed in. T able 2. EDA Performance Goals and Metrics Performance Goal Examples of Metrics Infrastructure investments that promote private enterprise and job creation in economically distressed communities and regions. • Private sector dollars invested in economically distressed regions as a result of EDA’s investments. • Jobs created or retained in economically distressed regions as a result of EDA’s investments. Non-infrastructure investments that build community capacity to achieve and sustain regional competitiveness and economic growth. • New technologies marketed due to EDA support. • Funding secured by entrepreneurs due to EDA support. • New customer and business relationship s developed due to EDA support . • Grantees leveraging EDA -supported CEDS for decisionmaking • EDA-sponsored capacity building events . 61 For additional information about the FY2025 disaster recovery NOFO, see CRS Insight IN12633, Economic Development Administration Disaster Economic Recovery Funding (P.L. 118 -158), by Julie M. Lawhorn . 62 P.L. 118 -272, §2228. Prior to the enactment of P.L. 118 -272, EDA administered a national program focused on Disaster Recovery and Economic Integration since FY2021, though an agency office had not yet been formally established in statute . 63 Page, Testimony in Smarter Spending, Stronger Results: Reducing Duplication and Ensuring Effectiveness Through Economic Development Reforms . 64 P.L. 118 -272, §2228. For additional information, see CRS Report R46696, National Preparedness: A Summary and Select Issues ; and FEMA, “National Disaster Recovery Frame work,” https://www.fema.gov/ emergency -managers/ national -preparedness/ frameworks/ recovery . 65 Page, Testimony in Smarter Spending, Stronger Results: