expansion may have implications that vary depending on industr y, skills and region (geography). For a summary of perspectives on AI and labor considerations , see CRS In Focus IF12762, The Macroeconomic Effects of Artificial Intelligence , by Lida R. Weinstock and Paul Tierno . EDA’s Workforce As Congress considers provisions in recent bills designed to reauthorize, alter, update, or expa nd EDA’s programs, it may seek to review the scale and scope of financial resources, workforce capacity, and authorities that may be needed to meet future needs and roles of the EDA. For instance, in its FY2025 budget request, EDA noted that “Since 2018, E DA has seen its active grant portfolio grow by more than 8 times, going from 1,670 grants valued at $694 million at the end of 2017 to over 3,000 grants valued at over $6 billion in 2024.”196 (See Figure 4 for a visualization of EDA’s funding for programs and salaries and expenses since FY201 2.) Congress may seek to review EDA’s workforce plan, permanent and temporary staffing levels, and hiring authoritie s to ensure that the agency is equipped to implement and oversee new programs and authorities. 191 EDA, “ EDA Support for the Administration ’s AI Action Plan,” December 22, 2205, https://www.eda.gov/ news/ blog/ 2025/ 12/22/eda-support -administrati ons-ai-action -plan. 192 EDA defines sectoral partnerships as “a partnership of employer(s) within one industry that brings government, education, training, economic development, labor, and/or community organizations together to focus on the workforce needs o f an industry within a regional labor market. Sectoral partnerships prepare workers for jobs that employers need filled. ” See EDA, “Economic Development Glossary,” https://www.eda.gov/ about/ economic -development -glossary . 193 EDA, “Investment Priorities,” https://www.eda.gov/ funding/ investment -priorities . 194 Page, Testimony in Smarter Spending, Stronger Results: Reducing Duplication and Ensuring Effectiveness Through Economic Development Reforms . 195 EDA, “About EDA,” https://www.eda.gov/ about . 196 EDA, “FY2025 Congressional Budget Justification,” p. 115, https://www.commerce.gov/ sites/ default/ files/ 2024 -03/ EDA -FY2025 -Justification -Congressional -Submission.pdf . Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 45 Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms (TAAF) Following the TAAF termination provisions that took effect in 2022, E DA cannot accept new petitions for TAAF . EDA may continue to assist firms that submitted a petition prior to the program ’s expiration.197 Congress may review the TAAF program in light of current trade and economic dynamics and ongoing trade negotiations. TAAF policy discussions involve the program’s reauthorization, and broadening criteria so that more firms may qualify for assistance. The p rogram’s focus, funding level, and options to streamline its operations, among other matters, are outlined as “Issues for Congress” in CRS In Focus IF12430, Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms , by Kyla H . Kitamura . Congress may also review the EDA’s continued administration of the portion of the TAAF program for firms that submitted a petition prior to the program ’s expiration . In the explanatory statement accompanying FY2026 appropriations, for instanc e, Congress directed