addition to ongoing annual appropriations for the discretionary EAA grant program, Congress has authorized supplemental appropriations for EAA ACC and NCC initiatives as well as for post - disaster economic recovery and COVID -19 economic recovery efforts. EDA makes ACC and NCC funding available through the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) for the Public Works and EAA programs, usually on an annual basis. • A broadband mapping project to address current business acc ess, an assessment of future needs, and regulatory matters for a coal - impacted community. • Development of a post -disaster roadmap to improve regional economic resiliency. • Storm water upgrades to minimize flooding hazards in a commercially zoned area in ord er to support job creation and economic resiliency goals. • Partnership Planning (11.302) The Partnership Planning program supports a national network of EDA -designated Economic Development Districts (EDDs) as well as local organizations (Indian Tribes and other eligible recipients) with long -term strategic economic development planning efforts, and helps communities undertake focused, project -specific planning activities. • Funds to support the develop ment and implementation of the CEDS planning process. Local Technical Assistance (11.303) The Local Technical Assistance program provides grants for management and • A feasibility study for a proposed, regional entrepreneurship center. publication/ 105006/ economic -development -administration -programs -and-project -types_1_0.pdf ; and “The Location of Economic Development Administration Grants —EDA Program Evaluation,” The Urban Institute, July 20, 2023, https://www.urban.org/ research/ publication/ location -economic -development -administration -grants . Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 16 Program Name (CFDA No.) Description Project Examples technical services, including feasibility studies or impact analyses. University Centers (UCs) (11.303) Institutions of higher education operate University Centers that provide technical assistance to public and private sector organizations with the goal of enhancing local economic development. As of the date of publication, EDA indicates that f unding is not available to continue this program. • Operational support for a UC that assists local communities with an asset -based planning process to expand economi c development opportunities in partnership with the state agencies and regional EDDs. • Operational support for a UC to help firms with technology transfer and commercialization. Research and National Technical Assistance (RNTA) (11.312 and 11.303) The RNTA program funds research, evaluation, and national technical assistance projects that promote competitiveness and innovation in distressed rural and urban regions. • A program evaluation of infrastructure and non - infrastructure EDA grants. • A grant to national organizations to provide technical assistance and disseminate promising strategies among coal -impacted and nuclear closure communities. Build to Scale (Section 27) (11.020) The Build to Scale (B2S) program funds efforts to facilitate innovation and entrepreneurship and increase access to risk capital. B2S is composed of the Venture Challenge and the Capital Challenge. The Venture Challenge supports entrepreneurship support programs and other models to accelerate high -growth entrepreneurship activities. T he Capital Challenge provides operational support to help organizations and regions expand access to risk capital. EDA’s OIE administers