Needs to Improve Oversight of CARES Act Revolving Loan Funds to Ensure Loans Are Made to Eligible Borrowers and Used as Intended ,” Final Report No. OIG -25-019-A, April 30, 2025, https://www.oig.doc.gov/ wp-content/ OIGPublications/ OIG-25-019-A-SECURED.pdf . 175 DOC OIG, “ The Department ’s Vision for an Enterprise Grants Management System Has Not Been Realized ,” Final Report Number OIG -25-025-A, June 30, 2025, https://www.oig.doc.gov/ wp-content/ OIGPublications/ OIG-25-025- A_Final -Report -SECURED.pdf . Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 40 EDA Reauthorization Prior to 2025 , Congress last amended and extended EDA authorities in 2004 through the Economic Development Administration Reauthorization Act (EDARA; P.L. 108 -373). In hearings during the 117th and 118th Congresses, Members of Congress discussed issues related to EDA’s grant requirements, grant allocations, disaster recovery, and capacity, and the reauthorization of appropriations for programs established by PWEDA among other matters.176 Congressional deba te centered on modernizing EDA ’s programs and authorities to meet changing technology and industries versus keeping broad -based programs that may be adapted to a range of challenges and opportunities. In deliberations preceding EDA’s reauthorization, Membe rs of Congress also expressed varying perspectives on the preferred level of federal participation in state and local economic development and raised questions about the extent of EDA and other federal agency collaboration versus the potential duplication of programs and services.177 In January 2025, the Economic Development Reauthorization Act (EDRA) of 2024 (P.L. 118 - 272) reauthorized the EDA. EDRA revised existing authori ties, codified new and existing roles, expanded criteria for existing programs, and changed program and administrative requirements. In general, EDRA made significant changes to EDA because the legislation • statutorily established EDA investment priorities ; • amended cost -sharing and other program requirements; • prioritized small, rural, under -resourced, and tribal communities for certain EDA programs and activities; • expanded and codified EDA’s role in disaster economic recovery and tribal economic developmen t; • authorized new programs, amended program authorities to modernize or refine the scope of existing programs, and codified EDA’s authority to support certain types of projects and activities (e.g., broadband, workforce training, project predevelopment); • expanded and codified EDA’s coordination and partnership activities; and • authorized a total funding level of $3.2 billion through FY2029, among other changes. EDRA’s reauthorization of EDA signaled continued congressional interest in promoting job creation and private investment in distressed communities through flexible, core economic development grant programs. EDRA also indicated congressional interest in allowing EDA to provide new forms of assistance and expand program access to certain communities and for certain development activities. For instance, EDRA’s changes to core EDA program criteria appear to be designed to specifically address economic development needs of rural, small, and tribal communities and the needs of areas experiencing economic distress resulting from changes in energy and manufacturing industries. EDRA authorized assistance for regional economies that may be preparing for and responding to natural disasters, plant closures, broadband challenges, trade dynamics, and other problems and opportunities as