199 EDA, “Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms,” https://www.eda.gov/ funding/ programs/ trade -adjustment - assistance -for-firms . Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 46 Congress may also wish to maintain current program roles and authorities —many of which are broad and flexible (e.g., the EAA program) —and targeted appropriations, directed as needed to address new challeng es and opportunities (e.g., in the manner of setting aside EAA funding for coal-impacted and nuclear closure communities in the Assistance to Coal Communities ( ACC ) and Assistance to Nuclear Host Communities (ANHC initiatives ).200 Congress may also review the allocation of assistance based on preferred economic development goals —to further economic growth, to advance national competitiveness, to foster job creation, to prepare regions for development, to develop human capital, to recover from and prepare for economic shocks, and/or other outcomes. While EDRA addressed some economic development challenges related to technology, trade, extreme weather trends, and industry changes, these matters may continue to impact regional economies and may warrant further c ongressional deliberation and/or response. The EDA —through its program investments, partnerships, and integration roles —represents one of many channels of federal and nonfederal policies designed to address economic matters at the subnational level. In pr actice, economic development involves multiple stakeholders, and the associated outcomes and processes will likely be impacted by multiple macroeconomic factors and community -level circumstances, conditions, and histories. Policy considerations related to EDA are likely to involve a strategic and contextual evaluation of adjacent policies, related agencies, supporting actors, and awareness of the many, dynamic factors impacting global, national, and regional economies. As debates about federal economic dev elopment policy and how to assist economically distressed areas continue , Congress may continue to explore legislative and other strategies to assist state and local entities with specific challenges and opportunities and/or to help them also build resilie nt, diversified economies that may weather these and other unforeseen events. 200 Congress approved appropriations for several years for the ACC and NCC initiatives. EDRA codified EDA assistance to coal and nuclear host communities initiatives under the existing EAA program under in FY2025. Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 47 Appendix A. Grant Programs This appendix provides summaries of EDA’s current grant programs and selected requirements. In January 2025, the Economic Development Reauthorization Act (EDRA) of 2024 ( P.L. 118 - 272) reauthorized the EDA. EDRA also authorized several new EDA grant programs , including programs for renewable energy on brownfields sites ( 42 U.S.C. §3154d) , workforce training ( 42 U.S.C. §3154e) , high-speed broadband deployment ( 42 U.S.C. §3154g) , and critical supply chain site development ( 42 U.S.C. §3154h) . As of the date of publication, EDA has not published guidance for the new programs . Build to Scale (B2S) The B2S program (formerly called Re gional Innovation Strategies) supports entrepreneurship, innovation, technology commercialization, access to capital, and related efforts to expand startups, company growth, and increased access