maintaining, and implementing a CEDS and related short -term planning activit ies.216 Statutory Authority: 42 U.S.C. §3143 Agency Regulations: 13 C.F.R. Part 303 Economic distress criteria: No minimum economic distress level requirements.217 Requirement to align with CEDS or equivalent: Generally, the long -term partnership planning investments support the development of CEDS. Level of matching funds requirement : Generally, 60% of project costs, but may be provided up to 100% of project costs (see 42 U.S.C. §3144(c)(3) ). 216 According to an example noted in EDA’s FY2021 -FY2023 NOFO for Planning and Local Technical Assistance, “EDA might provide Short Term Planning funding to a coalition of Tribal and regional organizations to plan a coordinated response to the sudden loss of a significant employer in the affected area. ED A also makes Short -Term Planning awards to support the preparation or update of a CEDS for regions not served by a District Organization.” See EDA, “NOFO —EDA Planning and Local Technical Assistance Programs ,” p. 6, https://www.grants.gov/ search - results -detail/ 332125 . 217 13 C.F.R. §306 and 13 C.F.R. §301.3. Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 51 Public Works Program The Public Works program is designed to promote long -term economic development and assist with the construction of physical infrastructure projects in distressed areas. Grants may support the acquisition or development of land and improvement s for use for a public works, public service, or development facility; and the acquisition, design and engineering, construction, rehabilitation, alteration, expansion, or improvement of such a facility, including related machinery and equipment. Examples of Public Works activities may include water and sewer systems improvements, industrial parks, business incubator facilities, telecommunications infrastructure, skill -training facilities, brownfields redevelopment, and the expansion of port and harbor faci lities. Similar assistance is also available under the agency’s EAA program. The FY2025 Public Works and EAA NOFO (updated September 2025) indicated that Public Works projects involving workforce training “ should include artificial intelligence (AI) skill development where relevant and feasible.”218 Statutory Authority: 42 U.S.C. §3141 Agency Regulations: 13 C.F.R. Part 305 Economic distress criteria: The project area must meet one (or more) of the economic distress criteria, which includes projects that mee t a “special need.” Requirement to align with CEDS or equivalent: Funded projects must be part of an EDA - certified CEDS or equivalent EDA -accepted regional economic development strategy. Level of matching funds requirement: Generally, 60% of project costs, but may vary. Projects may receive an additional amount, not to exceed 30%, based on the relative needs of the region in which the project will be located, as determined by EDA. In the case of certain applicants that have exhausted their effective borrowi ng capacity —such as a state or political subdivision of a state that has exhausted its effective taxing and borrowing capacity, or small communities (provided that they meet other eligibility criteria) —EDA may award grants totaling 100% of a project’s cost . Credit may be given toward the