Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 1 Introduction The Economic Development Administration (EDA ), a bureau of the U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC ), provides financial and technical assistance to support locally driven, regionally oriented economic development strategies. The definitions of economic development and the local scope of practice have changed in response to shifts in regional and global economies, advances in technology, and other conditions and circumstances. EDA’s programs, roles, and investment priorities have also shifted since the agency was created over 60 years ago. EDA’s programs continue to include support for infrastructure, pub lic works, and distressed areas, but now also include strategies focused on entrepreneurship, innovation, disaster recovery, and facilitating state and local economic development capacity.2 In addition to administering and monitoring grant programs, EDA’s roles have expanded to include research, technical assistance, and economic development integration across agencies, among others. Congress approves appropriations for EDA annually and directs the agency to allocate funding to most EDA programs. Congress occasionally approves supplemental funding as well (see Figure 6). Supplemental funding in recent years has supported select innovation a nd economic recovery assistance programs following selected natural disasters and the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID -19) pandemic. Supplemental appropriations are generally administered through one of the agency’s most flexible programs, the Economic Adju stment Assistance (EAA ) program. In addition to providing appropriations, Congress performs oversight and conducts hearings on EDA programs and administration. Recent hearings regarding the EDA have addressed agency capacity, grant allocations, grant requ irements, disaster recovery, coordination with federal regional commissions and authorities, and reauthorization of appropriations for programs established by the Public Works and Economic Development Act (PWEDA ) of 1965 (42 U.S.C. §§3121 et seq.), among o ther matters (see Table C-2 for a list of hearings in the 117th -119th Congresses). This report provides a broad overview of the EDA with a focus on its programs and appropriations history since FY201 2. Following an abb reviated history of the agency, the report discusses investment priorities, structure, and performance metrics, and outlines the programs that assist with state and local activities. The report includes an analysis of recent appropriations (see Figure 3), including disaster and economic recovery assistance (see Figure 6), and concludes with considerations for policymakers. For more information on the statutory history of the 1 EDA, “Key Definitions, ” https://www.eda.gov/ performance/ key-definitions/ . See also e.g., Karl F Seidman, Economic Development Finance (Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 2005), p. 5 ; International Economic Development Council (IEDC ), “What Economic Development Does for a Community, ” https://www.iedconline.org/ clientuploads/ Downloads/ IEDC_Why_and_Impact_Economic_Development.pdf ; and Emil E. Malizia and Edward Feser, Understanding Local Economic Development (New Brunswick, NJ: Center for Urban Policy Rese arch, Rutgers, 1999), pp. 12 -13. 2 Testimony by Mr. Dennis Alvord , Acting Assistant Secretary of Commerce for EDA, U.S. House of Representatives, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure , Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management , Investing in America: Reauthorization of the Economic Development Administration , 117th Cong.,