(CEDS) The CEDS is a locally develo ped, long -term regional economic development plan. Projects must serve an area that has a CEDS or equivalent strategy in order to be eligible for PWEAA funding .96 However, t he CEDS requirement may be waived in some instances.97 The EDA provides funding to EDDs to carry out and implement the CEDS under its Partnership Planning program.98 CEDS involves both a planning process and the development of a regional framework for selecting and prioritizing economic development strategies —generally developed with an asset - based approach. To complete the CEDS, regional stakeholders engage local leaders, private sector firms, individuals, organizations, institutions of learning, and other participants. An organization must have a CEDS in order to receive EDA’s EDD desig nation.99 The EDA requires a CEDS update every five years.100 EDA regulations require that CEDS include elements outlined in Table 4. According to the EDA, CEDS must also incorporate the concept of economic resilience.101 T able 4. Core Elements of a Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS) CEDS Element Description Summary Background A summary of the economic conditions of the region. SWOT Analysis An in -depth analysis of regional strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats. Strategic Direction/Action Plan The strategic direction and action plan should build on findings from the SWOT analysis and incorporate elements from other regional plans (e.g., land use and transportation, workforce development, etc.) where appropriate, as determined by the EDD or community/region en gaged in development of the CEDS. The action plan should also identify the stakeholder(s) responsible for implementation, timetables, and opportunities for the integrated use of other local, state, and federal funds. Evaluation Framework/Performance Measu res The strategic direction and action plan should build on findings from the SWOT analysis and incorporate/integrate elements from other regional plans (e.g., land use and transportation, workforce development, etc.) where appropriate, as determined by the EDD or community/region engaged in development of the CEDS. The action plan should also identify the stakeholder(s) responsible for implementation, timetables, and opportunities for the integrated use of other local, state, and federal funds. Sources: 13 C.F.R. §303.7 and EDA, “Comprehensive Economic Development Strategies,” https://eda.gov/ ceds. Notes: EDA provides “Content Guidelines” with additional resources for CEDS development and suggestions for CEDS conten t. However, beyond the four required sections and economic resilience component, the CEDS content and CEDS development process is managed by local and regional stakeholders. 96 EDA, “Comprehensive Economic Development Strategies,” https://eda.gov/ ceds. According to EDA , “EDA supports the CEDS Resource Library at http://www.statsamerica.org/ ceds/ Default.aspx where applicants can determine whether their region is served by an EDD and locate the most recent CEDS ”—see http://www.statsamerica.org/ ceds. 97 42 U.S.C. §3149(b)(2); 42 U.S.C . §3162 ; 13 C.F.R. §307. 5. 98 EDA, “Planning Program ,” https://www.eda.gov/ sites/ default/ files/ pdf/about/ Planning -Program -1-Pager.pdf . 99 13 C.F.R. §304.1. 100 13 C.F.R. §303.6 . 101 EDA regulations specify that each r egional CEDS must promote resiliency . Economic resilience in the context of the CEDS is related to