1999), pp. 12 -13. 2 Testimony by Mr. Dennis Alvord , Acting Assistant Secretary of Commerce for EDA, U.S. House of Representatives, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure , Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management , Investing in America: Reauthorization of the Economic Development Administration , 117th Cong., 1st sess., April 28, 2021 , https://www.congress.gov/ 117/meeting/ house/ 112512/ witnesses/ HHRG -117-PW13 - Wstate -AlvordD -20210428.pdf . EDA’s Definition of Economic Development The EDA defines economic development as creating “the conditions for economic growth and improved quality of life by expanding the capacity of individuals, firms, and communities to maximize the use of their talents and skills to support innovation, lower transact ion costs, and responsibly produce and trade valuable goods and services. ”1 Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 2 agency, see CRS Report R41241, Economic Developme nt Administration: A Review of Elements of Its Statutory History , by Julie M. Lawhorn . The EDA’s Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms (TAAF) program is outside the scope of this report. For more information on TAAF, see CRS In Focus IF12430, Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms , by Kyla H. Kitamura . Agency Overview EDA programs support the development of capacity for communities to address the conditions, circumstances, and opportunities that are unique to their region. Some EDA programs (e.g., Public Works , EAA , and Recompete, among others) prioritize areas experiencing economic distress. The programs are generally flexible and support economic adjustment, economic resiliency, infrastructure, work force, disaster economic recovery, innovation, planning, technical assistance, and related activities. In allocating most of its economic development assistance program funds, EDA solicits competitive proposals to align with the agency’s program goals and its five investment priorities (see “ Investment Priorities, FY201 2-Present ” below). EDA Mission and Origins The EDA’s mission is to “lead the federal economic development agenda by promoting innovation and competitiveness, preparing American regions for growth and success in the worldwide economy.”3 It is the only federal agency with economic development as its exclusive mission.4 The EDA was created by the Public Works and Economic Development Act (PWEDA) of 1965 ( P.L. 89 -136, 42 U.S.C. §§3121 et seq.) to support job creation, job retention, and invest ment in economically distressed areas.5 The findings section of PWEDA reflect the origins of the agency’s approach to locally driven economic development: while economic development is an inherently local process, the Federal Government should work in pa rtnership with public and private State, regional, tribal, and local organizations to maximize the impact of existing resources and enable regions, communities, and citizens to participate more fully in the American dream and national prosperity.6 The ag ency continues to describe its approach as working “directly with local economic development officials to support their bottom -up, regionally owned economic development initiatives”7 and helping communities “build capacity for economic development based o n local business conditions and needs.”8 For instance, EDA programs generally do not require applicants 3 EDA, “Overview,”