implementation grants.” One of the considerations indicates that, among other factors, the Secretary shall consider “the potential of the eligible consortium to advance the research, development, deployment, and domestic manufacturing of technologies in a key technology focus area, as described in Section 10387 of the Research and Development, Competition, and Innovation Act or other technology or innovation sector critical to national security and economic competitiveness.” The initial list of ten ke y technology focus areas in Section 10387 (Division B, Title III —National Science Foundation for the Future, Subtitle G) includes biotechnology, quantum information sciences, advanced materials science, and advanced energy and industrial efficiency technol ogies, among others. The NOFO further note d that the grants will be made using a competitive, merit -review process, and that awards will be made in a manner that ensures geographic diversity and representation from communities of differing populations, am ong other considerations. EDA administer s two Tech Hubs funding awards: • Strategy development awards —to help a consortium prepare to apply for an implementation award and/or Tech Hub designation by supporting planning, coordination, and pre -development act ivities; and • Strategy implementation awards —to support economic development activities such as workforce development, business and entrepreneur development, technology maturation, and infrastructure. In the inaugural competition, EDA administer ed the progr am in two phases. In Phase 1, an applicant could apply for a strategy development award, a Tech Hub designation, or both. Only entities that were already designated as Tech Hubs in Phase 1 were permitted to apply for implementation awards under the Phase 2 NOFO. Designated Tech Hubs, however, w ere not required to receive a strategy development award to apply for an implementation award. EDA is 220 For more information, see https://www.eda.gov/ funding/ programs/ regional -technology -and-innovation -hubs . 221 See P.L. 117 -167, Division B, Title VI —Miscellaneous Scienc e and Technology Provisions, Subtitle C, §10621 . Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 54 statutorily required to designate at least 20 Tech H ubs and indicate d that designation is a strong signal of a region’s potential. There is no funding associated with the designation. Tech Hubs grants are awarded to eligible consortia. In addition to other entities, an eligible consortium must include one o r more representatives from • Institutions of higher education; • State, territorial, local, or tribal governments or other political subdivisions of a state; • Industry groups or firms in relevant technology, innovation, or manufacturing sectors; • Economic devel opment organizations or similar entities; and • Labor or workforce training organizations. The NOFO encourages the participation of at least two private firms in an eligible consortium, and notes that other entities may be part of the consortium. One of the consortium members will be the lead applicant.222 Statutory Authority: 15 U.S.C. §3722a223 Agency Regulations: The program is governed by the terms of the NOFO.224 Economic distress criteria: No minimum economic distress level requirement s.225 Requiremen t to align with CEDS or