Assistance for Firms , by Kyla H . Kitamura . Congress may also review the EDA’s continued administration of the portion of the TAAF program for firms that submitted a petition prior to the program ’s expiration . In the explanatory statement accompanying FY2026 appropriations, for instanc e, Congress directed EDA to provide $7.5 million to the TAAF program in FY2026.198 According to EDA, f unding is not available to continue support for t he program , and “c urrent Trade Adjustment Assistance Centers will utilize previously awarded funds to serv e existing clients until such funding is exhausted. ”199 Concluding Remarks Throughout the agency’s history, a central feature of EDA’s role has been to provide matching federal funds to assist state, local, and regional entities to advance projects in supp ort of growth, or to address geographic disparities for distressed areas. In 2025, EDRA e xpand ed EDA’s authorities, structure, and requirements, which may enable the agency to serve more communities, achieve different outcomes, or coordinate across federal and state departments and agencies in different ways. In light of recent changes provided in EDRA, Congress may be interested in tracking the implementation of new programs, roles, and coordination activities and their impact on communities . Legislation enacted in recent Congresses indicates interest in expanding the EDA’s role in place - based, regionally oriented, and community -led approaches to technology -based economic development. As EDA and other federal agencies implement new regional inn ovation programs, Congress may evaluate aspects of such programs for consideration in other place -based initiatives. Conversely, Congress may evaluate options to decrease federal involvement in state and local economic development. Policies that propose to change the agency’s roles or programs may reflect different interpretations of what constitutes economic development and differing views on whether federal policies should provide broad -based assistance, targeted assistance, or some combination thereof. For some, broad -based economic development programs with economic distress criteria allow assistance to be accessible for a range of communities’ needs and opportunities (e.g., the Public Works and EAA programs). For others, targeted economic development pr ograms allow assistance to reach a particular type of community or circumstance (e.g., programs for energy - and resource -based industries). For others still, policies may involve a mixture of approaches and overlap in definitions, agencies, roles, and stra tegies of practice. In considering policy changes, 197 See CRS In Focus IF12430, Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms , by Kyla H. Kitamura . 198 Representative Tom Cole, “ Explanatory Statement Submitted by Mr. Cole, Chair of the House Committee on Appropriations, Regarding H.R. 6938 , Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026 ,” p. H256. 199 EDA, “Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms,” https://www.eda.gov/ funding/ programs/ trade -adjustment - assistance -for-firms . Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 46 Congress may also wish to maintain current program roles and authorities —many of which are broad and flexible (e.g., the EAA