History of Economic Development Integration ,” https://eda.gov/ integration/ ; and GAO, “ Efficiency and Effectiveness of Fragmented Economic Development Programs Are Unclear, ” May 19, 2011, GAO -11-477R , https://www.gao.gov/ products/ gao-11-477r. 41 EDA, “Economic Development Integration,” https://www.eda.gov/ strategic -initiatives/ economic -development - integration/ history . For a description of economi c development integration in disaster resiliency planning, see U.S. House of Representatives, Select Climate Crisis Committee , “Creating a Climate Resilient America : Smar t Finance for Strong Communities,” Serial No. 116 –16, December 11, 2019, https://www.govinfo.gov/ content/ pkg/CHRG - 116hhrg41272/ pdf/CHRG -116hhrg41272.pdf . 42 EDA, “Regional Integrator Contacts,” https://eda.gov/ integration/ contact . As of date of publication, EDA has Regional Economic Development Integrators at three of the EDA ’s six regional offices. Regional integrators may help stakeholders by convening meetings, building coalitions, iden tifying resources, and other activities to facilitate coordinated responses to state and local economic development issues. For an example, see EDA, “EDA ’s Economic Integrator Catalyzes Interagency Investments in San Diego ,” https://www.eda.gov/ impact/ success -stories/ economic - development -integration/ edas-economic -integrator -catalyzes . 43 EDA, “Economic Development Integration,” https://eda.gov/ integration . 44 Limitations may apply to the total amount of federal project funding, depending on the program, type of applicant, and determination of special need. See 42 U.S.C. §3144. The FY20 25 Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) for the (continued...) Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 11 • EDA partners with other federal agencies that administer economic developm ent programs, including the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the Department of Labor (DOL), and the Small Business Administration (SBA), among others.45 In July 2021, GAO analyzed opportunities for further collaboration among EDA, HUD, and USDA. In its final report, GAO recommended that, in collaboration with HUD, EDA should (1) update its written interagency agreement with HUD on community and economic development planning and (2) monitor its pr ogress toward outcomes of its interagency agreement. At the time of this report the EDA implemented the recommendation s. GAO also recommended that USDA review options to expand collaboration between EDA, HUD, and USDA, and this recommendation was also considered fully addressed at the time of this report.46 GAO noted existing interagency efforts to integrate federal econom ic development activities, include the Thriving Communities Network and the Rural Partners Network, among other federal interagency initiatives, in its update on the status of report recommendations.47 In FY2026, EDA plans to meet with the federal regiona l commissions and authorities to discuss agency coordination of efforts to address economic development in distressed regions.48 Disaster Economic Recovery Role49 EDA is the lead agency in the “Economic Recovery Support Function (ERSF) ” under the National Disaster Recovery Framework (NDRF).50 According to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), “The NDRF identifies Recovery Support Functions that provide a structure to facilitate problem solving, improve access to resources, and foster coor dination among state and federal agencies, tribes, territories, nongovernmental partners