The program targets areas where prime -age (25 -54 years) employment falls below the national rate. The prime age employment gap (PAEG) is the difference (expressed as a percentage) between ( 1) the national five -year average prime -age employment rate and ( 2) the five -year average prime -age employment rate of the eligible area. Among other requirements, projects must be located in one of two eligible geographic areas and meet certain PAEG requirements. The two eligible geographic areas are • Local Labor Markets (LLMs) —a Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), a Micropolitan Statistical Area ( μMSA), a commuting zone, or tribal lands. LLMs with a PAEG of at least 2.5% are eligible. Tribal lands and Pacific Ocean territories are considered eligible LLMs. • Local Communities (LCs) —an area served by a general -purpose unit of local government (e.g., county government) that is located within, but does not fully cover, an ineligible LLM. In addition, one of these conditions must apply: • The entire area served by the uni t of local government on average has a PAEG of at least 5% and a median annual household income of no more than $75,000; or 219 EDA, “FY2023 Distressed Area Recompete Pilot Program Phase 1 NOFO (Recompete Pilot Phase 1 NOFO),” https://www.eda.gov/ sites/ default/ files/ 2023 -06/Recompete_Pilot_Program_NOFO_phase_1_vF.pdf . Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 53 • A subset of the area served by the unit of local government has five or more contiguous Census tracts that each individually have a PAEG of at least 5% and median annual household income of no more than $75,000. In this instance, the applicant’s service area must be contained within the identified Census tracts. Requirement to align with CEDS or equivalent: The CEDS requirement is not referenced in 15 U.S.C. §3722b. Level of matching funds requirement: There is no match requirement for Phase 1 or Phase 2 awards in the FY2023 NOFO ; matching was a competitive factor in Phase 2. Regional Technology and Innovation Hubs (Tech Hubs) Program220 P.L. 117 -167 (the CHIPS and Science Act), enacted August 8, 2022, established a new Regional Technology and Innovation Hub (Tech Hubs) Program at the Department of Commerce.221 The focus of the program is to support technology development, job creation, and expanding U.S. innovation capacity. The program also seeks to develop hubs in areas that are not “leading technology centers.” Program applicants will determine their technology focus area and hub activities based on their regional assets and other fac tors. P.L. 117 -167 does not include a list of specific industry or technology focus areas for the hubs. However, it does outline “considerations for the designation and awa rd of implementation grants.” One of the considerations indicates that, among other factors, the Secretary shall consider “the potential of the eligible consortium to advance the research, development, deployment, and domestic manufacturing of technologies in a key technology focus area, as described in Section 10387 of the Research and Development, Competition, and