new or existing regional innovation clusters with one third of the total amount of ARP Act appropriations ($1 billion out of a total of $3 billion in ARP Act funding). 185 Camilla Al exandra Hrdy , “Cluster Competition ,” Lewis & Clark Law Review , vol. 20, October 7, 2016, pp. 997 - 1009 , https://ssrn.com/ abstract= 2672660 ; and Giles Duranton, “California Dreamin’: The Feeble Case for Cluster Policies,” Review of Economic Analysis , vol. 3, pp. 3 -45, http://repository.upenn.edu/ real-estate_papers/ 2. Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 43 • What is the role of the federal government, and in particular the EDA, in supporting the development of local and regional innovation economies? • How can research universities strengthen their role in helping to anchor local and regional innovation economies? • How can efforts to build regional innovation economies include shared prosperity as a priority?186 Discontinued Programs and EDA’s Role in Artificial Intelligence (AI) Pilot Workforce Programs In July 2025, the Trump Administration’s Artificial Intellige nce Action Plan identified a role for several agencies, including EDA, to implement artificial intelligence (AI) pilot programs and other activities to advance national economic and military objectives .187 The plan highlighted a range of strategies, including those that address workforce development and training , which could be implemented using existing DOL and DOC authorities, namely the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) and PWEDA , respectiv ely. The latter authorizes several long -standing EDA programs, such as the Public Works and EAA programs, as well as newer programs such as the workforce training program recently established by EDRA.188 In December 2025, EDA published a blog post on “EDA S upport for the Administration ’s AI Action Plan,” which summarized EDA’s plan to shift resources to new priorities and emerging opportunities, such as AI , in support of the Artificial Intelligence Action Plan .189 EDA plans to allocate $25 million for workforce grants and will discontinue funding for three programs (i.e., the Un iversity Center (UC), Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms (TAAF), and STEM Talent Challenge programs).190 EDA noted that the three discontinued programs were outdated, costly, and “not designed to address recent developments in the economy or have had the ir 186 Policy q uestions from the Hearing Charter for U.S. House of Representatives, Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, “Building Regional Innovation Economies,” June 9, 2021, https://www.congress.gov/ 117/meeting/ house/ 112753/ documents/ HHRG -117-SY15 -20210609 -SD002.pdf . The hearing memo reviewed the rol e of the Department of Commerce and the EDA in expanding regional innovation economies, options for further development, and partnership opportunities with federal science agencies, and raised several considerations regarding the EDA’s role and select aspects of the Build to Scale (B2S) program in particular. The memo noted that EDA’s expertise includes leading regional economic development and related expertise, while NIST and other agencies are generally considered lead agencies in terms of technical expertise on innovation and research and development. The hearing charter further