there are no minimum economic distress level requirements for RNTA projects. Requirement to align with CEDS or equivalent: EDA regulations (13 C.F.R. §306.2) note that projects will be evaluated based on the extent that they are “consistent with an EDA -approved CEDS, as applicable , for the region in which the project is located.” Level of matching funds requirement: Generally, 50% of project costs, but may vary. PWEDA notes that the Secretary may also increase the federal share up to 100% for RNTA grants (42 U.S.C. §3147 ). See 13 C.F.R. §301.4. STEM Talent Challenge228 (Discontinued by EDA) According to EDA, “Funding is not available to continue support for this program and no further competitions are planned. ”229 Congress directed EDA —in legislative text —to allocate $2 million each fiscal year for FY2021 and FY2022 and $2.5 million each fiscal year for FY202 3-FY2025. Report language ac companying FY2026 appropriations directed EDA to allocate $2.5 million to the program.230 Prior to FY2026, t he STEM Talent Challenge program (or “STEM Apprenticeship Pilot” program) fund ed proposals to expand career pathways and meet employers’ needs for a STEM - capable workforce. The pro gram was authorized in the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act of 2017 ( P.L. 114 -329) and is administered by the EDA’s Office of Innovation and Entrepreneurship (OIE) . According to EDA , the STEM initiative align ed with the goals of the agency’s B2S program, which is also administered by OIE and designed to develop talent, capital, and entrepreneurial support systems. The STEM Talent Challenge was designed to address the need for the “talent” component by building a skilled workforce for regional i nnovation economies. Funded projects generally address ed training gaps in order to facilitate the growth of 227 In partnership with EDA, the Nuclear Decommissioning Collaborative (NDC), NADO Research Foundation (NADO RF), the Center on Creative Land Rec ycling, and Smart Growth America provided support to communities through the Technical Assistance for Nuclear Communities (TANC) program, which assisted communities that have experienced a nuclear power plant closure event and the subsequent adverse socioe conomic impacts. Through the program, the TANC team engaged with stakeholders in nuclear closure communities to evaluate their needs and assets and provided support for redevelopment efforts. The EDA’s webpage on RNTA provides additional examples at https://www.eda.gov/ rnta. 228 STEM is the acronym used for science, technology, engineering, and mathematics curriculum, training, education, and related initiatives. For more information, see https://www.eda.gov/ funding/ programs/ stem -challenge . 229 EDA, “STEM Talent Challenge,” https://www.eda.gov/ funding/ programs/ stem -challenge . 230 Representative Tom Cole, “ Explanatory Statement Submitted by Mr. Cole, Chair of the House Committee on Appropriations, Regarding H.R. 6938 , Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026 ,” p. H256. Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 56 high-growth, high -wage entrepreneurial ventures, innovation -driven businesses, and industries that leverage emerging technologies. Statutory Authority: 15 U.S.C. §3723231 Agency Regulations: The program