effective borrowi ng capacity —such as a state or political subdivision of a state that has exhausted its effective taxing and borrowing capacity, or small communities (provided that they meet other eligibility criteria) —EDA may award grants totaling 100% of a project’s cost . Credit may be given toward the nonfederal share for in -kind contributions, including contributions of space, equipment, and services. Recompete Pilot Program (Distressed Area Recompete Pilot Program) The Recompete Pilot program is a new program authorize d by the CHIPS and Science Act ( P.L. 117-167 §10621) that provide s grants and cooperative agreements to persistently distressed areas. EDA administer s two types of Recompete awards: (1) strategy development grants and (2) strategy implementation grants. In the inaugural Recompete competition , EDA administer ed the two types of funding awards through two award phases for the program. • For Phase 1, EDA instruct ed applicants to ch oose either a strategy development grant, approval of a Recompete Plan, or both. Strategy development grants were designed to help applicants strengthen regional coordination and support planning and pre -development activities, including hiring a coordinat or or the formulation of a Recompete Plan. A strategy development grant conveys funding. 218 EDA, “FY20 25 EDA Public Works and Economic Adjustment Assistance NOFO ,” p. 18, https://grants.gov/ search - results -detail/ 346815 . Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 52 A Recompete Plan is a comprehensive economic development plan that includes the proposed multiyear activities to be implemented, projected costs, partner roles, and ot her information. EDA also approve d Recompete Plans in Phase 1, but approval of a Recompete Plan d id not convey funding. According to EDA, applicants were required to have their Recompete Plan approved in order to be invited to apply for implementation fund s under Phase 2. • In Phase 2, EDA fund ed implementation awards to support a range of economic development activities based on regional priorities. The implementation funds may be used for activities that are consistent with an applicant’s approved Recompet e plan in order to support workforce development; business and entrepreneur development; infrastructure (or other site development programs); and planning and technical assistance activities. Implementation award recipients were not required to have previo usly received a strategy development award. Eligible applicants include • political subdivisions of a state; • tribal governments; • U.S. territories; • the District of Columbia; • nonprofit organizations working in cooperation with a political subdivision of a state; • EDDs ; and • a coalition of any of the entities listed above. Statutory Authority: 15 U.S.C. §3722b Agency Regulations: The program is governed by the terms of the NOFO.219 Economic distress criteria: The program targets areas where prime -age (25 -54 years) employment falls below the national rate. The prime age employment gap (PAEG) is the difference (expressed as a percentage) between ( 1) the national five -year average prime -age employment rate and ( 2) the five -year average prime -age