Ensuring Effectiveness Through Economic Development Reforms . 64 P.L. 118 -272, §2228. For additional information, see CRS Report R46696, National Preparedness: A Summary and Select Issues ; and FEMA, “National Disaster Recovery Frame work,” https://www.fema.gov/ emergency -managers/ national -preparedness/ frameworks/ recovery . 65 Page, Testimony in Smarter Spending, Stronger Results: Reduci ng Duplication and Ensuring Effectiveness Through Economic Development Reforms . 66 EDA, “EDA Performance Measurement and Program Evaluation,” https://www.eda.gov/ performance . Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 14 Source: EDA, “EDA Performance Measurement and Program Evaluation,” https://www.eda.gov/ performance . Note: For more information, see “Performance Data Collection Instruments and Processes ,” https://eda.gov/ performance/ gpra. EDA Grant Programs EDA grant programs, which are generally flexible, locally based, and regionally oriented, are designed to increase the capacity for state and local econo mic development.67 According to EDA, between FY2012 and FY2021, the agency invested over $5.3 billion in 7,921 projects.68 The agency’s grant programs and investment priorities broadly support local initiatives that “leverage economic assets in facilitatin g regional economic prosperity and resiliency as well as conditions for business success.”69 Activities funded by EDA grant programs include infrastructure, planning, workforce development, disaster economic recovery, and funding for business assistance pr ograms such as revolving loan funds, business technical assistance, innovation, entrepreneurship, and business incubator programs,70 among others. Grant programs may also support regional economic development goals by facilitating existing and emerging ind ustry clusters, developing human capital, strengthening supply chains, expanding access to capital, and building innovation and technology strategies.71 With the exception of the Recomplete Pilot and Regional Technology and Innovation Hubs (Tech Hubs) prog rams, no minimum or maximum project amount is specified in law.72 In January 2025, EDRA reauthorized the EDA. EDRA also authorized several new EDA grant programs, including programs for renewable energy on brownfields sites ( 42 U.S.C. §3154d) , workforce training ( 42 U.S.C. §3154e) , high -speed broadband deployment ( 42 U.S.C. §3154g) , and critical supply chain site development ( 42 U.S.C. §3154h) . As of the date of publication, EDA has not published guidance for the new programs .73 Table 3 provides a summary of EDA grant programs prior to the enactment of EDRA. For detailed program information, see Appendix A .74 67 Capacity is a central component of EDA’s definition of economic development . EDA defines economic development as creating “the conditions for economic growth and improved quality of life by expanding the capacity of individuals, firms, and communities to maximize the use of their talents and skills to support innovation, lower transaction costs, and responsibly produce and trade valuable goods and services. ” EDA further defines economic development capacity building a s “developing or improving community as sets that businesses need to succeed. ” See EDA, “Key Definitions,” https://eda.gov/ performance/ key-definitions . 68 EDA, “ EDA Performance Measurement and Program Evaluation,” https://www.eda.gov/ performance . 69 EDA, “Investment Priorities,” https://www.eda.gov/ funding/ investment -priorities . 70 EDA defines incubators as A program, often sponsored by a