Figure 6. CARES Act, P.L. 116-136 The types of projects supported through CARES Act recovery assistance included • economic recovery planning and preparing technical assistance strategies to address economic dislocations caused by the COVID -19 pandemic; • preparing or updating resiliency plans to respond to future pandemics; • implementing entrepreneurial support programs to diversify economies; • constructing public works and facilit ies that will support economic recovery, and including the deployment of broadband to support telehealth and remote learning for job skills. All geographic areas were eligible to apply for assistance under the “Special Need” criteria of the EAA program be cause of the widespread effects of the COVID -19 pandemic.160 EDA used both competitive and non -competitive processes to distribute CARES Act funding. Activities that received funding through non -competitive processes included EDDs and tribal planning grante es; University Centers; and Revolving Loan Fund (RLF) programs.161 P.L. 116 -136 provided that, of the amount appropriated, 2% of funds may be transferred to the ‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’ account for administration and oversight activities to prevent, prepare for, and respond to the pandemic and $3 million was to be transferred to the OIG. The funding for salaries and expenses provided 159 Funding provided by the CARES Act to EDA was designated by Congress as an emergency requirement under the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985. 160 42 U.S.C. §3149(b). 161 For more information on the EDA ’s COVID -19 response, see CRS Insight IN11402, The Economic Development Administration’s Economic Recovery Assistance for COVID -19 Impacted Communities , by Julie M. Lawhorn ; and DOC , “U.S. Department of Commerce CARES Act Implementation Plan,” June 202 0, https://www.commerce.gov/ files/ commerce -cares -act-implementation -plan-june-2020 . Economic Development Administration: An Overview of Programs and Appropriations Congressional Research Service 37 by the CARES Act expired on September 30, 2022. Additionally, Congress provided temporary special hiring authority to EDA through the CARES Act.162 American Rescue Plan (ARP) Act, P.L. 117-2 The ARP Act provided $3 billion to assist communities with COVID -19 recovery and resiliency strategies. These funds are available for economic adjustment assistance, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to COVID -19 conditions and for necessary expenses for responding to economic injury as a result of the COVID -19 pandemic. P.L. 117 -2 provided that of the amount appropriated , up to 2% shall be used for “temporary Federal personnel as may be necessary” to prevent, prepare for, and respond to the pandemic . The funding for temporary federal personnel i s to remain available until September 30, 2027. Of the amount appropriated, 25% was for states and communities that have been affected by the decline in the “travel, tourism, or outdoor recreation sectors.” EDA administered ARP Act recovery assistance through the following six new grant programs, each with different investment criteria and priorities:163 • the Build Back Better Regional Challenge;164 • the Good Jobs Challenge; • the EAA Program; • the Indigenous Communities Challenge; • the Travel, Tourism, and Outdoor Recreation