Service 22 The U.S. assistance disruptions and cuts have had implications beyond the health sector. In March 2025, protesters and police clashed in Kakuma refugee camp after the World Food Program reduced rations due to funding shortfalls, and some reports suggest the U.S. assistance c uts led to deaths in the camp.146 Aid cuts have also led relief agencies to scale back food aid to Kenyans affected by severe drought.147 U.S. support for wildlife conservation, primary education, food security, anti -corruption, and election integrity were a lso among the programs reportedly terminated.148 In August 2025, as a result of the Administration’s foreign aid review, the U.S. Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) terminated a $60 million MCC threshold program that aimed to improve transport and land use in Nairobi. New Health Framework. In December 2025, the State Department announced Kenya as the first country to sign a “Health Cooperation Framework,” a new bilateral arrangement through which the Trump Administration plans to provide assistance unde r its America First Global Health Strategy.149 Under the Kenya deal, the United States would provide $1.6 billion in global health funding to the country over the next five years, supporting not only medicine and care but also health care infrastructure, wh ile Kenya would increase its domestic health expenditures by $850 million over the five -year period, assuming greater financial responsibility as U.S. support decreases. According to the State Department, the compact would address “priority health programs in Kenya including HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis (TB), malaria, maternal and child health, polio eradication, disease surveillance, and infectious disease outbreak response and preparedness.”150 The deal has been controversial in Kenya, in part due to data privac y concerns, and a Kenyan court has suspended its implementation pending a constitutional challenge.151 Security Cooperation. The United States has supported various efforts to help build Kenya’s capacity to counter terrorist attacks, secure its borders, con tribute to multinational stabilization operations, professionalize its security forces, and foster police accountability. The extent to which these programs have been affected by the Trump Administration’s foreign aid cuts remains unclear. Kenya, which rou tinely receives U.S. military assistance, has also regularly been the largest sub -Saharan African recipient of State Department -administered Anti -Terrorism Assistance (ATA) for law enforcement. Reports suggest that training and aid via the U.S. Special Program for Embassy Augmentation and Response (SPEAR), which is funded through ATA, helped an elite Kenyan unit respond rapidly to Al Shabaab’s 2019 attack on the DusitD2 hotel in Nairobi, significantly limiting the loss of life.152 Among other recent security assistan ce 146 New Yorker , “The shutdown of U.S.A.I.D. has already killed hundreds of thousands,” November 5, 2025 and “Rovina’s Choice,” November 4, 2025; The New Humanitarian , “Cut to the bone, The cost of ration cuts and delivery delays in Kenya’s refugee camps,” August 26, 2025; and Pro Publica , “Inside the Trump Administration’s Man -Made Hunger Crisis,” December 17, 2025. 147 Reuters, “Drought deepens hunger in northern Kenya as aid cuts bite,” February 19, 2026. 148