Kenya’s safe haven image,” November 6, 2024; VOA , “Top Kenyan official claims Kenya is ‘safe haven’ as cases of state -sanctioned abductions surge,” November 28, 2024. 120 Financial Times , “How Kenya turned the tide against ivory poachers,” April 27, 2021. Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 18 enforces wildlife laws and regulations and manages the national parks and reserves. Despite its efforts to curb the illicit wildlife trade, Kenya remains a transit country. Corruption and weaknesses in enforcement and prosec ution of trafficking laws are an ongoing concern. The U.S. government has long partnered with Kenya’s government and civil society to address these issues and support other conservation efforts. The United States has provided training and equipment to the KWS and supports programs to protect the country’s parks and animals. Roughly 65% of Kenya’s famous wildlife live outside its KWS -protected parks, and conservation groups have worked with communities to establish over 200 community conservancies to protect wildlife and promote sustainable land use. The United States has supported these conservancies, which protect over 7 million hectares of land. Tourism, much of it wildlife -related, is an important source of revenue ($ 3.5 billion in 202 4) and jobs.121 Kenya lost an estimated $1 billion in tourism -related revenue during the COVID -19 pandemic. Deforestation is a long -standing concern for Kenya . Kenya’s Wangari Maathai, the first African woman to win the Nobel Prize, was recognized for her tree -planting campaign and broader contributions to sustainable development, democracy, and peace. President Ruto has proposed to plant 15 billion trees by 2023 to combat climate change , but in 2023, he directed an end to a six - year-old logging ban, ostensibly to create jobs. A court suspended the decision, leaving the ban in place. Environmentalists warn that lifting the logging ban would risk reversing the gains the country has made to improve its tree cover.122 Among other environmental initiatives, Kenya has sought to stem plastic pollution, including by banning plastic bags and single -use plastics in 2017. With stiff penalties, the law was initially successful, but the smuggling of bags from neighboring countri es presents enforcement challenges.123 U.S. Relations and Assistance The United States and Kenya have historically close ties. The country is a popular destination in Africa for American tourists: over 300,000 Americans visited Kenya in 2024.124 U.S. Embassy Nairobi is designated a high -threat, high -risk post, given terrorism concerns, and hundreds of U.S. servicemembers, civilians, and contractors are in Kenya to support counterterrorism (CT) efforts in the region. Some are deployed to Camp Simba, a U.S. forward operating location adjacent to a Kenyan naval base on the coast near the Somali border. Governance, human rights, and corruption concerns in Kenya sometimes complicate the bilateral relationship, and abuses by Kenyan security forces have posed challe nges at times for security cooperation. Successive U.S. Administrations have pushed for greater accountability for political violence and unresolved corruption cases. In 2024, the Financial Action Task Force