2025, after the Administration ’s aid review began , that U.S. support for the MSS would be excepted from the aid freeze.156 Under the Trump Administration, the State Department has reported that the United States has provided over $1 billion to support the MSS; U.S. officials have asserted t hat “America cannot continue shouldering such a significant financial burden” and called on other international donors to step up support.157 Kenya’s role in the new Gang Suppression Force remains unclear, but the Administration has pledged continued suppor t for the mission. The new head of U.S. Africa Command (AFRICOM), Gen. Dagvin Anderson, has described Kenya as “a key partner for peace and security in Africa” and characterized the security partnership as one “built over many years around shared interest s, shared challenges, and a shared commitment to regional stability.”158 Kenyan forces routinely participate in joint exercises organized by AFRICOM and Kenya often hosts Justified Accord, AFRICOM’s largest exercise in East Africa, which is focused on enhan cing peacekeeping capabilities. In 2025, Kenya co -hosted the African Chiefs of Defense Conference with AFRICOM, bringing together military leaders from more than three dozen African countries. The Massachusetts National Guard is paired with Kenya in the Na tional Guard State Partnership Progra m. 153 Task & Purp ose, “US starts $70 million upgrade to Kenyan airfield used in Somalia operations,” February 1, 2026; Stars & Stripes, “Living quarters upgrade in works at Kenya camp key to US operations in Somalia,” November 18, 2025. 154 Senate Foreign Relations Committee (SFRC) , “Risch, Cruz, Scott Introduce Bill to protect American taxpayer dollars from African peacekeeping operation,” May 2, 2025. 155 SFRC, “Risch on Biden Admin’s Decision to Override Congress on Haiti MSS Funding,” June 20, 2024. 156 SFRC, Hearing on Pending Nominations, January 15, 2025; and State Department, Secretary of State Marco Rubio and Dominican President Luis Abinader at a Joint Press Availability, February 6, 2025. 157 US. Mission to the United Nations, Remarks at a UN Security Council Br iefing on Haiti, April 21, 2025; State Department, “Advancing U.S. Foreign Policy Priorities in Haiti: Deliverables and Next Steps,” September 24, 2025. 158 AFRICOM, “U.S. -Kenyan partnership advances security cooperation,” January 29, 2026. Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service R48072 · VERSION 17 · UPDATED 24 Author Informa tion Lauren Ploch Blanchard Specialist in African Affairs Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from