violence.2 Freedom House ranks Kenya “Partly Free” in its Freedom in the World index, noting that despite regular elections, pervasive corruption and police brutality remain serious problems, and while Kenya’s media and civil society are vibrant, journalists and human rights defenders face restrictive laws and intimidation. Kenya’s 2022 elections were the most recent in a series of polls that have tested its democratic institutions. With incumbent President Uhuru Kenyatta term limited, the race was a close contest between his deputy, William Ruto, and longtime opposition leader Raila Odinga. In a twist, Kenyatta backed Odinga, his formal rival, over Ruto , who led a populist, anti -establishment campaign and won with just over 50% of the vote. Shadows from previous election -related violence and corruption allegations linger over Preside nt Ruto, as they did over Kenyatta; both once faced charges of crimes against humanity at the International Criminal Court (ICC).3 President Ruto has sought to court foreign investment and position Kenya as a global voice on climate change and an advocat e, on Africa’s behalf, for climate finance and international financial system reforms .4 Politics at home , however, sometimes compete with his international agenda. His administration has faced major economic challenges, including a large debt burden, infl ation, and high unemployment. He has promis ed to transform the economy and reduce the cost of living, but some of his policy decisions have been unpopular . 1 Washington Post , “Kenyan president aims to attract green investment during U.S. visit,” May 17, 2024. 2 The Conversation , “Why violence is a hallmark of Kenyan policing. And what needs to change,” June 5, 2020; The New Hum anitarian, “Kenya police violence is colonial and institutional, as well as political,” June 26, 2025. 3 The Economist , “Who is William Ruto?,” August 16, 2022 and “Will William Ruto serve the people or himself and his pals?” October 25, 2022; and The N ew York Review , “The Political Education of William Ruto,” March 8, 2023. 4 See, e.g., Financial Times , “Kenyan leader sa ys World Bank and IMF are ‘hostage’ to rich nations,” June 23, 2023; The Africa Report , “Ruto wants ‘fair conversation’ over climate finance for Africa,” June 20, 2023. Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 2 Tax hikes and cost of living concerns have fueled public frustration and protests against Ruto’s government. Police violence against protesters and a spate of reported abductions and enforced disappearances of government critics in 2024 -2025 —which human rights groups attributed to security agents —prompted calls for the president’s ouster . Ruto has reshu ffled his cabinet several times, and his former deputy, Rigathi Gachagua, who was impeached in late 2024, has become a vocal critic. Gachagua is among several politicians that may challenge Ruto for the presidency in the 2027 elections. The upcoming electi ons will be the first in over twenty years in which Odinga, who passed away in late 2025 at age 80, is not on the ballot.