interest pay ments. In December 2025, President Ruto announced that the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) had agreed to a $1 billion debt -for-food security swap that would allow Kenya to replace costly existing debt with lower -cost financing on the condition that savings go to programs to boost food security.46 Climate Change and “Green Growth” As the Kenyan government has emphasized, Kenya faces a range of climate -related threats and risks, including prolonged droughts, rising temperatures, sev ere flooding, and coastal sea levels rising faster than the global average.47 Kenya ’s climate is highly variable , given its diverse geography, and it experiences significant rainfall variability, with parts of the country sometimes experiencing higher -than-average rainfall while other areas face prolonged dry spells . Kenya has struggled with recurrent drought since 2020, and while conditions improved in 2024, the situation has since deteriorated. Kenya has also experienced periods of intense rainfall and se vere flooding , which has contributed to displacement, property and agricultural damage, and loss of life. 41 Los Angeles Times , “‘China has conquered Kenya’” August 7, 2017. 42 Total public debt is estimated at $80 billion, of which $35 billion is owed to foreign lenders. Per the IMF’s 2023 Debt Sustainability Analysis, multilateral creditors account for 47% of Kenya’s external debt and bilateral creditors 28%. Almost 65% of Kenya’s bilateral debt is to non -Paris Club members , mainly loans from China. 43 Reuters, “Kenya publishes loan documents for Chinese -built railway,” November 7, 2022. 44 Deutsche Welle , “Kenya: Bumpy first year in office for William Ruto,” September 12, 2023 ; New York Times , “Behind the deadly unrest in Ke nya, a staggering and painful national debt,” June 26, 2024. 45 William Ruto, “If you want our countries to address climate change, first pause our debts,” New York Times , October 8, 2023. 46 Reuters, “Kenya, US agency to proceed with $1 billion debt -for-food swap,” December 4, 2025. 47 World Meteorological Organization, “Kenya State of the Climate Report highlights growing climate risks,” 2024. Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 10 The country has increasingly positioned itself as a regional leader in addressing climate change.48 Kenya’ s economy is highly dependent on its natural resources, and its tourism sector centers on its fragile ecosystems . The country generates most of its electricity from geothermal and hydroelectric sources. Drought affect s its hydropower generation, which acco unts for almost 30% of its electricity generation and a quarter of installed capacity ; the country is working to further develop geothermal power, its largest energy source, to reduce its vulnerability.49 Kenya is also developing its wind power capacity an d hosts Africa’s largest wind farm. Ruto has pledged to phase out the use of fossil fuels for electricity by 2030 and urged other African leaders to embrace renewables.50 He has also, however, express ed support for mining Kenya’s coal deposits.51 Presiden t Ruto has led Africa’s negotiating group at the UN Climate