United States and Panama.. Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 16 Israel/Gaza. Kenya has longstan ding ties with Israel, which Kenyan officials call a “special partnership.”102 Ruto expressed solidarity with Israel over the October 2023 attacks by Hamas, but has faced domestic pressure over Israel’s military operations in Gaza.103 Kenya often support s Israeli positions at the United Nations, but has also voted in favor of full UN membership for Palestine. Kenya supported resolutions calling for a humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza. Iran. In 2023, Iranian President Ebraihim Raisi made K enya the first stop on a trip aimed at bolstering Iran’s ties with Africa (Raisi also visited Uganda and Zimbabwe), and he signed a range of cooperation agreements with President Ruto, describing the visit as a turning point in Iran-Kenya relations.104 It was the first visit by an Iranian leader to Kenya in over a decade — during which time Iranian agents were implicated in several possible terrorist plots purportedly targeting Western or Israeli interests in Kenya.105 In response to the U.S. and Israeli milita ry operations against Iran, the Ruto Administration has called for de -escalation and diplomacy, and it has condemned the retal iatory strikes by Iran on the Gulf states.106 Russia/Ukraine. Kenya was a vocal critic of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in 2022 when it sat on the UN Security Council.107 The Ruto administration took a more ambiguous stance in early 2023, hosting the foreign ministers of Belarus and Russia and announcing plans for a trade pact with Russia. (Russia -Kenya trade is limited, particularly in comparison to U.S. -Kenya trade; imports from Russia consist primarily of iron, wheat, and fertilizers; Kenya’s main export to Russia is tea.) Kenyan officials subsequently called Russia’s decision to exit the Black Sea Grain Initiative “a stab in the back ” that would disproportionally harm the drought -affected Horn of Africa.108 Ruto did not attend Russia’s 2023 Africa Summit, and in early 2024, Kenya joined the Ukraine Defense Contact Group, a coalition of countries that supports the defense of Ukraine. Hundreds of Kenyans, meanwhile, have reportedly been recruited or forcibly conscripted into the Russian army to fight in Ukraine.109 Some say they were recruited with offers of gainful employment in Russia, but then forced to fight in Ukraine, while others, including some former members of Kenya’s security forces, were reportedly recruited to fight as mercenaries. Kenyan authorities assess that as many as 1,000 Kenyan citizens have been recruited to fight for Russia and have called for Russia to bar the consc ription of Kenyans.110 The government has shut down recruitment agencies and is prosecuting several individuals on human trafficking charges. China. China is Kenya’s largest trading partner and largest bilateral lender. PRC loans, estimated at over $8 billion, account for almost 17% of Kenya’s external debt (the World Bank is its largest external creditor).111 While Ruto has sought to strengthen U.S. ties, he has also sought to maintain 102 The East African , “Kenya, Israel agree to enhance