Issues and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 5 The 2017 Elec tion Overturned, Shifting Alliances. Violence, rigging allegations, and police brutality marred Kenyatta ’s rematch with Odinga in 2017. The opposition challenge d Kenyatta’s win at the Supreme Court, which nullified the presidential result in a landmark rul ing, citing “irregularities and illegalities in the transmission of results that affected the integrity of the poll.” The court ordered a new election but the opposition boycotted it , giving Kenyatta an easy victory. The opposition contested his legitimacy and held a mock inauguration to name Odinga “the people’s president.” The government declared it treasonous, shutting down media outlets and arresting opposition figures. Authorities ignored court orders o n the crackdown, leading Kenya’s chief justice , among others, to warn that the government’s disregard for the judiciary threatened the rule of law.10 Some Members of Congress and former U.S. diplomats also raised alarm.11 When Kenyatta and Odinga announced a deal , facilitated by the United States , to end the standoff in 2018 , Ruto viewed it as a betrayal, and a political reconfiguration ensued.12 Kenyatta and Odinga’s effort to make constitutional changes, ostensibly to make politics more inclusive, was seen by some observers as intended to extend Kenyatta’s power and was blocked by the judiciary. The 2022 Elections. Kenya held elections in 2022 amid public frustration with high living costs, disillusion with the political class, and fear of another post -election crisis. Odinga had the incumbent president’s support for his fifth presidential bid , but th e alliance alienated some opposition voters.13 For some, Kenyatta epitomized “the establishment.” Ruto capitalized on economic frustrations and, with a Kikuyu running mate, divided the Kikuyu vote.14 Odinga also had a Kikuyu running mate , Martha Karua, Kenya’s first female candidate on a major ticket . Ruto, reportedly among Kenya’s richest men, had served for years in government, but during the race he emphasized his humble upbringing, casting himself as a champion for the poor and an outsider running against the establishment. He pitched a “bottom up ” economic plan and pledged to reduce the cost of living. His alleged role in organizing violence against Kikuyu after the 2007 elections appears not to have dissuaded many Kikuyu from voting for him. Some analysts note that Kikuyu politician s had long bra nded Odinga as a destabilizing force, and , by some accounts, economic frustration and grievances against the Kenyatta family factored into votes for Ruto.15 Ruto narrowly avoid ed a runoff against Odinga, gaining 50.5% of the votes cast. Turnout, the lowest in 15 years, hinted at voter apathy, particularly among young Kenyans. Observers described the election s as more peaceful and transparent than the preceding three , but like past polls they were marred by rigging allegations and other controversies. A reco rd number of women ran in the 2022 elections , and more won parliamentary seats than ever before. Seven female governors were elected. The 2022 polls were reportedly among Africa’s most expensive,