Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations Updated March 6, 2026 Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov R48072 Congressional Research Service SUMMARY Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations Longstanding U.S. ties with Kenya have deepened over the past decade , as successive U.S. administrations have viewed the country as a strategic partner in Africa. Former President Joe Biden hosted Kenya’s President William Ruto for a state visit in 2024, and he designated Kenya as the Uni ted States’ first Major Non -NATO Ally in Sub -Saharan Africa, a designation that conveys defense trade and security cooperation benefits . Ruto was the first African leader to be invited by a U.S. president for a state visit since 2008. The Trump Administrat ion has similarly appeared to value the bilateral relationship with Kenya, describing the country as one of the United States’ strongest partners in the region . Kenya became an important U.S. counterterrorism partner in Africa in the aftermath of Al Qaeda’s 1998 bombing of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanza nia. In 2011, the country launched military operations in neighboring Somalia against the regional Al Qaeda affiliate, Al Shabaab, and subsequently joined the UN -authorized African Union stabilization mission there. Al Shabaab launched attacks against soft targets frequented by foreigners, including U.S. citizens, in Kenya’s capital, raising the group’s international profile. In 2020, Al Shabaab killed a U.S. servicemember and two U.S. contactors in an attack on Manda Bay Airfield, a Kenyan base used by the U.S. military near the Somali border. Al Shabaab, which U.S. officials now describe as Al Qaeda’s largest and wealthiest affiliate, continues to pose a threat in Kenya and the broader region, and Kenya hosts an expanding U.S. military presence at Manda Ba y that supports regional counterterrorism efforts. The 2024 state visit highlighted Kenya’s importance to the United States not only as a diplomatic and security partner in Eas t Africa, but as an African counterpart on shared global priorities. Kenya participated in Operation Prosperity Guardian, a maritime taskforce launched by the United States in response to Houthi attacks in the Red Sea, and it has been one of the only African members of the Ukraine Defense Contact Group . Kenya’s 2024 deployment, w ith U.S. support, to lead the Multinational Security Support mission in Haiti, further elevated U.S. -Kenya ties, despite outstanding questions about the country’s human rights trajectory. Kenya is often characterized as a comparatively stable and democrat ic anchor state in a troubled region . Political unrest has threatened its stability several times, however, most recently in 2024, when a protest movement led by young Kenyans and a violent state response spurred a political crisis . Facing a heavy debt bur den and the threat of default , President Ruto tried to raise taxes that year , which fanned public anger amid rising costs of living. When legislators passed the tax bill while t ens of thousands were in the streets protesting , some demonstrators stormed the parliament. Dozens were killed in the