Governance, human rights, and corruption concerns in Kenya sometimes complicate the bilateral relationship, and abuses by Kenyan security forces have posed challe nges at times for security cooperation. Successive U.S. Administrations have pushed for greater accountability for political violence and unresolved corruption cases. In 2024, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), of which the United States is a member, added Kenya to its “grey list” of countries subject to increased monitoring for money laundering and terrorism financing. Bilateral relations have fluctuated in the past two decades. The ICC cases were a significant point of friction, and President Kenyat ta looked to other foreign partners, notably China, for diplomatic and economic support. In the tense period after the 2017 polls, however, U.S. diplomats helped to facilitate Kenyatta and Odinga’s rapprochement, a sign of continued U.S. influence. The first Trump Administration took steps to improve ties, and announced a Strategic Partnership when 121 Citizen , “Kenya’s tourism sector hit record Ksh.452 billion earnings in 2024,” September 23, 2025. 122 Lisa Fuchs, “Kenya’s logging ban has been lifted —it’s a political de cision and a likely setback for conservation,” The Conversation, July 22, 2023. 123 NPR , “The toughest plastic bag ban is failing: A tale of smugglers, dumps and dying goats,” August 9, 2023. 124 Kenya Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife, Annual Tourism Sector Pe rformance Report 2024 . Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 19 Kenyatta visited the White House in 2018. Nearly $900 million in commercial deals were announced during the visit, and direct flights, once blocked over U.S. sec urity concerns, started later that year. First Lady Melania Trump visited Kenya on her first solo international trip. The Trump Administration launched a Bilateral Strategic Dialogue with Kenya in 2019 and free trade agreement (FTA) negotiations in 2020. Relations continued to improve under the Biden Administration. Kenya was the opening stop on Antony Blinken’s first trip to Sub-Saharan Africa as Secretary of State, during which he attended the Bilateral Strategic Dialogue. He highlighted the strategic pa rtnership and Kenya’s regional peacemaking role during the 2022 U.S. -Africa Leaders Summit, when the two countries signed a memorandum of understanding on civil nuclear cooperation. First Lady Jill Biden visited Kenya in early 2023, and Defense Secretary L loyd Austin went to Kenya on his first Sub-Saharan Africa tour, during which a five -year Framework for Defense Cooperation was finalized. The heads of the Central Intelligence Agency and Federal Bureau of Investigation both visited in 2024. The Biden Admin istration expressed support for a range of Kenyan initiatives, including on climate action and renewable energy. During Ruto’s 2024 state visit, the two governments made commitments on democracy, human rights, public health, security, and countering corrup tion, among other issues.125 They announced new initiatives on education, climate action, clean energy, carbon management, and sustainable development, and unveiled a partnership on semiconductor manufacturing in Kenya to strengthen the global supply chain. They launched the Nairobi - Washington Vision, which called on the