past five years, pri marily consisting of ambushes and improvised explosive devices (IEDs) targeting security forces, and largely concentrated in the northeast, near the Somali border. Beyond its domestic anti -terrorism efforts and military operations near the Somali border, Kenya has conducted military operations in Somalia since 2011. The number of Kenyan troops in the AU Support and Stabilization Mission in Somalia (AUSSOM), declined in 2025 with the mission’s transition to a new mandate. Kenya is expected to contribute 1,4 10 of AUSSOM’s 11,900 personnel. AUSSOM faces funding gaps as international donors continue to differ on how to finance it; the United States opposes the AU proposal to use UN assessed contributions in line with UN Security Council Resolution 2719 (2023) t o help finance the mission.68 Alongside terrorist threats, Kenya has struggled with pastoralist militia activity , including cattle - rustling and banditry, in the northwest.69 The government deployed the military in 2023 to curb attacks and small arms proli feration . The deployment lower ed the scale of violence, but persistent insecurity fueled public frustration with the government’s decision to deploy police to Haiti.70 Police Abuses and Calls for Reform Police abuses and extrajudicial killings (EJKs) in Ke nya have repeatedly drawn an international spotlight, including in the context of anti -terrorism efforts.71 The State Department’s most recent human rights report listed security force abuses, including torture, unlawful killings, and enforced disappearances among Kenya’s most serious human rights problems, noting “numerous reports the government or its agents committed arbitrary or unlawful killings ... particularly during the youth -led, nationwide ‘Gen Z’ demonstrations” in 2024. The report described impunity as a problem “at all levels of government” and a serious problem across security agencies. Accountabil ity mechanisms such as the Independent Police Oversight Authority have been criticized for failing to prosecute 66 Justice Department, “Cholo Abdi Abdullah sentenced to life in prison for conspiring to commit 9/11 -style terrorist attack on behalf of al -Shabaab, ” December 22, 2025. 67 Tricia Bacon, “Inside the Minds of Somalia’s ascendant insurgents: An Identity, Mind, Emotions and Perceptions Analysis of Al -Shabaab,” Program on Extremism at George Washington University, March 2022; UN Development Program (UNDP), Journey to Extremism in Africa : Drivers, Incentives and Tipping Point for Recruitment , 2017. 68 Partha Moman, “With AUSSOM’s funding challenges here to stay, what are the options for the Mission’s future in Somalia?” International Peace Institute, January 1 6, 2026; U.S. Mission to the United Nations, Explanation of Vote – UN Security Council Resolution on AUSSOM, December 27, 2024. 69 For more on pastoralist and ethnic militia activity, see, e.g., ACLED, “Increasing Security Challenges in Kenya,” March 2, 20 23 and “Kenya: Government operation brings calm to North Rift region,” August 4, 2023. 70 The New Humanitarian , “Kenya’s security paradox: Police sent to Haiti as banditry plagues North Rift,” September 4, 2024; Nation , “Renewed bandit attacks in Kerio Vall ey undermine government peace efforts,” January 28, 2025. 71 See, e.g., New York Times