that the government’s refusal to register an LGBTQ rights group was discriminatory and unconstitutional, and the court affirmed the community’s right to associate. Ruto, who has said there is “no room” for homosexuality in Kenya, expressed respect for the court’s decision but said, “it doesn’t mean we have to agree with i t.”35 The ruling prompted a backlash, led by conservative politicians and evangelical churches, and anti -gay protests.36 Legislation proposed in 2023, the Family Protection Bill, echoed Uganda’s anti - homosexuality law: if adopted, it would criminalize “pro moting” homosexuality; punish same -sex relations with 10 - 50 years in jail and “aggravated homosexuality” (defined in the bill as same -sex relations with a minor or disabled person, or when a terminal disease is passed) with the death penalty; and ban LGBTQ parades and assemblies, related advocacy, and cross -dressing. The bill was never formally tabled and remains stalled. The Economy Kenya is East Africa’s largest economy and one of the fastest growing and most diverse in Africa. Agriculture is the backbon e of the economy, but services, manufacturing , construction, and real estate also drive growth. The services sector leads in job creation , and the telecommunications industry is a global pioneer in mobile banking technology. U.S. government reports suggest that Kenya has fostered a positive investment climate, but corruption often influences the outcome of public tenders there and is a barrier to doing business.37 With almost 40% of the population under age 14, a coming surge in the labor force will present challenges and opportunities. Kenya ranks as a lower -middle income country, but over a third of the population lives in poverty, per the World Bank.38 Kenya’s economy has ralli ed since its COVID -19-related recession of 2020, but many Kenyans continue to struggl e due to inflation. Former President Kenyatta sought to improve Kenya’s business environment and attract foreign investment during his tenure, but his development agenda and spending ballooned public debt.39 China financ ed and built major infrastructure projects, including a railway and a port near the coastal town of Lamu, a UNESCO World Heritage site.40 The railway cost a fifth of the national 33 Gabrielle Lynch, “Kenya has changed: Gen -Z protests and what they mean,” Democracy in Africa, July 16, 2024. 34 Reuters, “Kenya could follow Uganda as East African nations wage war on LGBTQ rights,” June 23, 2023; The Guardian, “Exiles from Uganda’s harsh anti -gay laws fear ‘moral panic’ legislation could fo llow them,” July 7, 2025. On congressional concerns, see, e.g., H.Res. 1324 in the 118th Congress and Congressional Equality Caucus, “Equality Caucus on Ugandan Court Failing to O verturn Anti -Homosexuality Act,” April 3, 2024. 35 Reuters, “’No room’ for gays in Kenya, says deputy president,” May 4, 2015; and “For LGBTQ Kenyans, court win prompts backlash as threats escalate,” April 20, 2023. 36 The Guardian , “Kenya’s LGBTQ community wins bittersweet victory in battle for rights,” March 3, 2023; Evie Brown, “Navigating the politics of backlash: LGBTQ+