president aims to attract green investment during U.S. visit,” May 17, 2024. 54 “Diana Kruzman, “Welcome to Kenya’s Great Carbon Valley: a bold new gamble to fight climate change,” MIT Technology Review , December 22, 2025. 55 For more, see Abuya, Kenya’s Green Leadership . 56 Shadrack Omuka, “USAID freeze puts Kenya’s renewable energy ambitions at risk,” The Progressive, June 4, 2025. Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 11 in early 2026, fueling food insecurity in the country’s arid and semi -arid areas.57 By some estimates, as many as 3 million people in Kenya may face acute food insecurity this year.58 Refugee Issues. Kenya hosts over 835,000 refugees and asylum seekers, 87% of whom live in camps.59 A majority are from Somalia and South Sudan (460,000 and 203,000, respectively, as of early 2026), where conflict, insecurity, and humanitarian need have driven rising refugee flows into Kenya. Funding shortfalls have led aid agencies to reduce assistance to refugees in Kenya at the same time that humanitarian operations in Somalia and South Sudan are also struggling with serious funding gaps.60 Abrupt ration cuts in early 2025, prompted by the Trump Administration’s aid freeze (see “ U.S. Relations and Assistance ”) and other donor cuts, spurred violent clashes in one of Kenya’s refugee camps; the aid cuts have increased food insecurity in the camps.61 The Kenyan government’s stance toward refugees has shifted significantly over the past decade. In 2015, after a major Al Shabaab attack in Kenya, then -Deputy President Ruto demanded that the UN refugee agency (UNHCR) relocate refugees from Dadaab, Kenya’s largest refugee camp complex , where Kenyan authorities alle ged Al Shabaab had ties.62 The Obama Administration intervened: then -Secretary of State John Kerry traveled to the country, praised its role as a refugee host, and pledged additional U.S. aid to help Kenya support refugees.63 In 2016, the government declared that Kenya would no longer host refugees, again citing security concerns. Officials later clarified that the aim was to close Dadaab, which at the time h ad over 340,000 refugees, most from Somalia. Kenya’s High Court blocke d Dadaab’s closure, ruling it discriminatory and unconstitutional. Authorities threatened to close Dadaab again in 2019 and told UNHCR in 2021 that camp residents would be expelled if UNHCR did not devise a plan to close both the Dadaab and Kakuma complexe s by 2022 (Kakuma is near the border with South Sudan and has historically hosted refugees from there) . Humanitarian activists, arguing returns to countries in conflict were not sustainable, urged the government to offer refugees durable solutions in Kenya . The government adopted a progressive law in 2021 that provides new opportunities, rights, and protections for refugees within Kenya. Refugee advocates say it offers a promising model for refugee integration at a time when many countries are tightening r estrictions.64 The new policy , known as the Shirika Plan, aims to move from a camp -centric model toward one of local integration . It enjoys public support,