preceding three , but like past polls they were marred by rigging allegations and other controversies. A reco rd number of women ran in the 2022 elections , and more won parliamentary seats than ever before. Seven female governors were elected. The 2022 polls were reportedly among Africa’s most expensive, both in terms of campaign spending and election administrati on. Kenya invested heavily in election technology, including biometric registration, to improve the credibility of the process; whether it 10 Daily Nation (Nairobi), “Maraga defends Judiciary, says court orders must be obeyed,” February 7, 2018. 11 Sen. Cory Booker and Chris Coons, “Statement on Current Political Situation in Kenya,” February 7, 20 18; Mark Bellamy and Johnnie Carson, “How and why the US should intervene in Kenya,” African Arguments, February 2018. 12 Al Jazeera , “All you need to know about the clash between Kenyatta and Ruto,” August 18, 2019 ; Daily Nation , “Ruto: Handshake between Uhuru and Raila was a stab in the back,” March 6, 2022. 13 See, e.g., Deutsche Welle , “Kenya’s disillusioned youth shun election,” August 5, 2022; and Nanjala Nyabola, “The Kenyan Kakistocracy,” The Nation (New York City) , August 17, 2022. 14 Ruto’s running mate, Rigathi Gachagua , faced corruption and money laundering charges during the 2022 elections. Before the polls, a court ordered him to forfeit $1.7 million in state funds it determined he had illicitly acquired. 15 Al Jazeera , “Courting the Kikuyu: Keny an politicians split biggest voting bloc,” August 6, 2022; and Nic Cheeseman, et al., “Three critical questions will determine the Kenyan election,” The Elephant, July 26, 2022. Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 6 improved public trust is debated.16 After Ruto took office, Kenyan courts dropped corruption cases against his runnin g mate and several of his cabinet appointees at the request of the director of public prosecutions, whom Ruto later appointed as intelligence chief.17 2024 Protests. In June 2024, young Kenyans —dubbed “Gen Z” —organized protests against the government’s Finance Bill, which proposed $2.7 billion in new taxes to lower the budget deficit and borrowing. Protesters argued that the tax hikes would raise the cost of living as Kenyans were already struggling, deter inve stors, and choke the economy. They criticized the government’s spending choices, including on foreign travel, government pay raises, renovations, and the creation of new executive branch offices, such as those of the first lady and deputy first lady.18 Ostentatious displays of wealth by some legislators and cabinet members fueled ire.19 When police responded to the initial demonstrations with tear gas, water cannons, arrests, and gunfire, protests grew, and reported abductions by security forces exacerbated public anger .20 Tens of thousands were protest ing in Nairobi and other cities when the parliament passed the bill on June 25, 2024 , which spurred outrage. Hours later, as police fired on demonstrators outside the gates of parliament, killing several peopl e, some protesters stormed the complex. The protests were unprecedented in scale ,