partial.81 Kenya has increased its electricity imports from Ethiopia to meet growing energy demands, and plans to buy power produced from the GERD.82 In 2023, the two countries opened the Ethiopia -Kenya Electricity Highway, a $1.2 billion World Bank project through which they now share power.83 Somalia. Kenya -Somalia relations are complex. Ethnic Somalis comprise an estimated 6% of Kenya’s population: while some arrived in recent decades as refugees, Kenya’s colonial boundaries incorporated areas inhabited by ethnic Somalis, who are the predominant group in northeast Kenya. Historically marginalized, Somali Kenyans have nevertheless sometimes played prominent roles in Kenya’s government, and currently hold several of the top security posts.84 In the early 2000s, Kenya hosted peace talks that led to the formation of Somalia’s transitional federal government. It operated from Nairobi for several years un til regional security operations enabled its move to Somalia. After Al Shabaab took control of much of south -central Somalia in the late 2000s, Kenya sought to create a buffer zone between its border and Al Shabaab territory. In tandem with its military in cursion into southern Somalia, Kenya backed local militia and was pivotal in the establishment of Jubaland, which became one of Somalia’s most autonomous federal states.85 Jubaland has sometimes been a point of friction between the governments of Kenya and Somalia.86 Kenya’s ties with the breakaway Republic of Somaliland is another area of tension: Kenya maintains a liaison office there, and in 2025 allowed Somaliland to op en its own liaison office in Nairobi.87 Kenya and Somalia also have an unresolved maritime boundary dispute.88 Ruto announced in early 2026 that Kenya would reopen its land border with Somalia, which has been officially closed since 2011.89 DRC. Kenya dep loyed troops to eastern DRC in 2022 to lead an East African force to stabilize areas affected by a Rwandan -backed rebellion; the force withdrew in late 2023 after DRC authorities complained that East African troops were unwilling to aggressively confront t he rebels. Kenya has facilitated peace talks on the eastern DRC crisis, despite apparent suspicion by some Congolese about Kenya’s interests in the country. DRC’s president accused Ruto in 2024 of taking Rwanda’s side in the conflict.90 Former President Ke nyatta has nevertheless remained involved in regional mediation efforts as an AU envoy. The African -led peace process is part of a 81 CapitalFM, “Ruto says Kenya backs fair Nile water use, urges Ethiopia, Egypt, Sudan to pursue good -faith talks,” Septe mber 9, 2025. 82 The Africa Report , “Kenya’s power crisis reality: Why Ethiopia still holds the switch,” February 16, 2026. 83 CNN , “The $1 billion electricity highway that allows Ethiopia and Kenya to share their power,” December 14, 2024. 84 Tabea Scharrer, “‘Ambiguous citizens’: Kenyan Somalis and the question of belonging,” Journal of Eastern African Studies , June 16, 2018; Keren Weitzberg, We Do Not Have Borders: Greater Somalia and the Predicaments of Belonging in Kenya , Ohio University P ress: 2017; HRW, “Victory for Kenyans denied citizenship,” February