health, security, and countering corrup tion, among other issues.125 They announced new initiatives on education, climate action, clean energy, carbon management, and sustainable development, and unveiled a partnership on semiconductor manufacturing in Kenya to strengthen the global supply chain. They launched the Nairobi - Washington Vision, which called on the international community to help developing countries manage debt while investing in economic growth. The Biden Administration pledged new funds for police professionalization, prison reforms , health, education, agriculture, and civil society. Two resolutions introduced during the visit, S.Res. 704 and H.Res. 1254 , recogniz ed Kenya’s strategic importance to the United States and celebrat ed the 60th anniversary of bilateral ties. President Biden’s ambassador to Kenya, prominent Ame rican business executive Meg Whitman, focused on pitching Kenya to U.S. businesses and investors, and trade and investment were top priorities for Kenya during Ruto’s state visit.126 Microsoft and Coca Cola, among other U.S. businesses, announced major priv ate sector deals around the visit. The U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC), which has facilitated investments in renewable energy, e-mobility, digital connectivity, and infrastructure in Kenya, revealed new commitments during the visit that brought the DFC’s Kenya portfolio to over $1 billion. The Biden Administration, instead of continuing FTA negotiations, pursued a Strategic Trade and Investment Partnership (STIP) with Kenya, which the U.S. Trade Representative described as an “ambit ious roadmap for enhanced cooperation.” For more, see CRS In Focus IF11526, U.S.-Kenya Trade Negotiations . The current Trump Administration has characterized Kenya as an important U.S. ally in Africa.127 Secretary Rubio has publicly engaged more often with President Ruto than other African leaders, discuss ing the conflicts in DRC, Sudan, Somalia , and South Sudan ; praising Kenya’ s “pivotal” role in the turbulent region ; and expressing appreciation for the Haiti deployment .128 President Ruto has publicly challenged the Trump Administration on some issues, including climate change 125 White House, Fact Sheet: Kenya State Visit to the United States , May 23, 2024. 126 POLITICO , “Meg Whitman’s trying to be a different kind of US ambassador. Washington is noticing,” May 22, 2024. 127 See, e.g., State Department, “United States and Kenya sign five -year, $2.5 billion Health Cooperation Framework,” December 4, 2025 and “Advancing Trump Administration priorities in Sub -Saharan Africa,” September 25, 2025. 128 See, e.g., State Department, Se cretary Rubio’s Meeting with Kenyan President Ruto,” September 24, 2025 and “State Department, Secretary of State Marco Rubio with Kenyan President Ruto at the Signing of a Health Framework of Cooperation,” December 4, 2025, and State Department readouts o f Secretary Rubio’s calls with President Ruto. Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 20 and the defunding of some UN agencies.129 The post of U.S. ambassador to Kenya has been vacant since the end of President Biden’s term. The Trump Administration’s aid cuts (discussed below) and decision to dissolve the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) have reduced the U.S. footpr int in Kenya. The U.S. embassy now hosts