properties and almost 500 government properties were destroyed. The crisis hit the economy hard. Kenya was effectively paralyzed for two months before a power -sharing deal was brokered between Kibaki and Odinga by former UN Secretary - General Kofi Annan, with U.S. support. Kibaki formed a coalition government with Odinga in a new prime minister post, agreeing to draft a new constitution and address sensitive land issues. ICC Cases. After Kenya, an ICC state party, failed to create a tribunal to prosecute those found by an international commission of inquiry to be responsible for some of the worst post-election violence , the ICC confirmed charges against four people in 2012.7 Among them we re Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta and prominent Kalenjin politician William Ruto , two former Moi protégés who were on opposing sides in 2007 ; both were accused of criminal responsibility for crimes against humanity. The Prosecutor accused Ruto of , among other crimes, involvement in the burning of a church where hundreds of people, mostly Kikuyu, had sought refuge; at least 28 died in the attack. Kenya’s government objected to the cases, and they were prominent in the 2013 elections, when Kenyatta and Ruto ran together on a presidential ticket , portray ing the cases as an international conspiracy and emblematic of racial bias by the ICC. The race was extremely close: Kenyatta avoided a runoff against opposition leader Odinga by less than 1% of votes. Political interference and witness intimidation reportedly plagued the ICC trials. The ICC Prosecutor withdrew the charges against Kenyatta in 2014, and the judges declared a mistrial in Ruto ’s case in 2016, citing witness intimidation and political meddling. “There was a relentless campaign to identify individuals who could serve as Prosecution witnesses in this case and ensure that they would not testify,” per the Prosecutor.8 Neither Kenyatta nor Ruto were acquitted, leaving the possibility of future prose cution but allowing them to run for reelection in 2017. The ICC opened a new trial in 2022 , against a Kenyan lawyer accused of witness tampering “for the benefit, and in coordination with” Ruto; the lawyer died weeks after Ruto took office.9 6 For more, see Michela Wrong, It’s Our Turn to Eat: The Story of a Kenyan Whistle -Blower , Harper Perennial: 20 10. 7 The Commission of Inquiry’s report is available at https://www.knchr.org/ Portals/ 0/Reports/ Waki_Report.pdf . 8 Statement of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC), Fatou Bensouda, regarding Trial Chamber’s decision to vacate charges against Messrs William Samoi Ruto and Joshua Arap Sang, April 6, 2016. 9 The Prosecutor v. Paul Gicheru, Document Containing Charges, ICC-01/09 -01/20 -125-Conf -AnxA , March 12 , 2021 . Kenya: Current Issues and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 5 The 2017 Elec tion Overturned, Shifting Alliances. Violence, rigging allegations, and police brutality marred Kenyatta ’s rematch with Odinga in 2017. The opposition challenge d Kenyatta’s win at the Supreme Court, which nullified the presidential result in a landmark rul ing, citing