people who meet income guidelines ; and (3) 5 Internal Revenue Service, Financial Assistance Policy and Emergency Medica l Care Policy – Section 501(r)(4) , https://www.irs.gov/ charities -non-profits/ financial -assistance -policy -and-emergency -medical -care-policy -section - 501r4 . Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services Congressional Research Service 10 Ryan White Programs , which provide health care and support services to eligib le people living with HIV/AIDS. The resources below provide information on free or low -cost specialized health services related to maternal and child health, family planning, dental health, behavioral health, eye health, HIV/AIDs, and sexually transmitted infections. (Some of the contacts and websites in the “Resources and Contacts on Diseases , Conditions , and Treatments ” section also provide information on free or low -cost specialized health services. ) • Are there any health assistance programs for pregnant women, mothers, and children? (1-800-311-BABY) https://www.hhs.gov/ answers/ health -insurance -reform/ are-there -health - assistance -programs -for-pregnant -women -mothers -children/ index.html This U.S. Department of Health and Human Services website lists contacts for free or reduced cost prenatal care: 1-800-311-BABY (1 -800-311-2229) ; for Spanish , call 1-800-504-7081 . These numbers can connect callers to their area’s health department. • Maternal and Child Health Bureau: State Hotlines: Natio nal https://mchb.tvisdata.hrsa.gov/ Home/ StateHotlines This HHS Maternal and Child Health Bureau website lists state hotlines for information and assistance with health services for pregna nt persons, maternal health, infants, and children. • Find a Family Planning Clinic https://reproductivehealthservices.gov/ From the HHS Office of Population Affairs, this directory lists clinics participating in the federal Title X Family Planning Program. Title X clinics offer family planning counseling and supplies (including contraception and natural family planning methods ) and related preventive health services (including cervical cancer screenings). Clients may qualify for free or discounted care. • Finding Dental Care https://www.nidcr.nih.gov/ health -info/ finding -dental -care This National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research website includes “Where can I find low -cost dental care?” and “R elated publications” which links to Finding Low -Cost Dental Care: Information for Caregivers . It has contact information for dental schools, dental hygiene schools, and clinical trials, among other sources of free or low -cost oral health care. • FindTreatmen t.gov (800 -662-HELP or 800 -662-4357 ) https://findtreatment.gov/ This Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration directory can help constituents find mental health and substance use disorder treat ment facilities in their communities. The directory includes facilities with sliding fee scales and payment assistance. After obtaining search results, click “Show More” at the bottom of the “Filter by” menu on the left navigation bar, then filter by “Paym ent assistance available.” The hotline can also refer callers to local facilities, support groups, and community -based organizations. For additional tips, see Find Free or Low -Cost Treatment or Support for Mental Health and Substance Use , https://www.samhsa.gov/ find-support/ how-to-pay-for-treatment/ free-or-low-cost-treatment . Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services Congressional Research Service 11 • Get Free or Low -Cost Eye Care https://www.nei.nih.gov/ learn