who participate in an individual’s he alth plan. • Medicare.gov: Care Compare https://www.medicare.gov/ care-compare/ This tool can be used to find and compare different types of Medicare providers, including physicians, hospitals, and nursing homes. • U.S. Department of Health and Human Services : Health Care Providers & Facilities https://www.hhs.gov/ programs/ social -services/ health -care-faciliti es/index.html This listing of governmental sources allows users to l ocate health care providers and facilities and compare options. The list i ncludes free or low -cost care (Health Resources & Services Administration), Alzheimer’s Disease Research Centers Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services Congressional Research Service 8 (National Institutes of Health, or NIH ), Cancer Centers (NIH), and Mammography Certified Facilities (FDA). • U.S. Department of Health and Human Services: Choosing a Doctor: Quick Tips https://odphp.health.gov/myhealthfinder/doctor -visits/regular - checkups/choosing -doctor -quick -tips This guide offers suggestions for patients on how to choose and evaluate their primary care doctor. • Health Care Practitioners databases in State Agency Databases https://godort.libguides.com/ healthpractionerdbs This compilation of sta te databases is maintained by the American Library Association’s Government Documents Round Table and includes links to state - specific sources of information regarding various health professionals. Database content varies by state, but constituents can oft en use these databases to verify a health professional’s license and to check for disciplinary actions . Resources and Contacts for Financial Hardship The contacts and information below may help congressional offices respond to constituents facing financi al hardship due to medical costs. These resources can also help constituents find information on free or low -cost health care and general financial support. For information on assist ing uninsured constituents, see the “General Resources on Finding and Understanding Health Coverage ” section. Finding Help with Medical Bills or Medical Debt The following resources may help constituents facing hardship with medical bills or medical debt. • Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Ser vices: Call the No Surprises Help Desk (1 - 800-985-3059) https://www.cms.gov/ medical -bill-rights/ help The CMS No Surprises Help Desk and website can provide “answers about your medical billing situation.” The No Surprises Act protects consumers from certain unexpected out -of-network medical bills.4 Help Desk staff can help constituents determine whether the No Surprises Act applies to their situation. If constituents believe that their provider or insurer is not following relevant billing rules, they can submit a complaint. The Help Desk can also direct constituents to other resources and agencies if their billing situation is not covered by the No Surprises Act. Phone assistance is available in multiple languages. Constituents can also use online forms to ask questions, submit complaints, and dispute bills . • Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services: How to apply for financial assistance https://www.cms.gov/medical -bill-rights/help/guides/financial -assistance From the No Surprises Help Desk, this page describes options for obtaining assistance with hospi tal bills. 4 CRS Report R46856, Surprise Billing in Private Health Insurance: Overview of Federal Consumer Protections and Payment for Out -of-Network Services , summarizes consumer protections in the No Surprises