• Coverage to Care https://www .cms.gov/ priorities/ health -equity/ c2c This website provides consumer booklets and videos on using health coverage to get care. Topics include “Navigate Your Coverage,” “Access Care,” and “Manage Your Chronic Condition,” among other s. Some resources have been translated to other languages. • Find a patient advocate https://www.cms.gov/ medical -bill-rights/ help/ guides/ patient -advocate This website has tips and resources for finding a patient advocate. For constituents with chronic or serious health conditions, patient advocates can help navigate the health care system, for example by helping patients communicate with insurers and providers to obtain needed care .2 2 According to the National Cancer Institute, a patient advocate is a “ person who helps guide a patient through the healthcare system. This includes help going through the screening, diagnosis, treatment, and follow -up of a medical condition, such as cancer. A patient advoc ate helps patients communicate with their healthcare providers so they get the information they need to make decisions about their health care. Patient advocates may also help patients set up appointments for doctor visits and medical tests and get financi al, legal, and social support. They may also work with insurance companies, employers, case managers, lawyers, and others who may have an effect on a patient’s healthcare needs. Also called patient navigator .” National Cancer Institute, Dictionary of Cance r Terms , https://www.cancer.gov/ publications/ dictionaries/ cancer -terms/ def/patient -advocate . Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services Congressional Research Service 3 Types of Health Coverage Private Health Insurance Private Health Insurance (PHI) is the most common form of health coverage in the United States . PHI p lans are subject to federal and state requirements. PHI plan enrollees generally obtain their coverage through either, or occasionally both, of the following sources: an employment setting (group plans) or directly from an insurer (nongroup plans). The non group market (also called the individual market) and the small -group market include plans sold on and off the health insurance exchanges. The Appendix includes CRS reports that provide background information on this topic . • Employee Benefits Security Administration: Ask EBSA (1-866-444-3272 ) https://www.dol.gov/ agencies/ ebsa/ about -ebsa/ ask-a-question/ ask-ebsa This website connects c onstituents with benefit advisors at the U.S. Department of Labor ’s Employe e Benefits Security Administration (EBSA). Benefit advisors can respond to questions about an enrollee’s job-based health coverage . Constituents can also submit their questions or complaints through an online form available on this website . EBSA can assist with “self -insured” plans, which are typically health insurance plans received through large employers or employers with locations in more than one state or country . • Mental Health Treatment: What Does Health Insurance Cover? https://www.samhsa.gov/find -support/how -to-pay-for-treatment/know -what - your-insurance -covers This website from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) provides guidance on how to identify an enrollee’s mental health and substance abuse treatment coverage under their existing health plan. Most private health insurance plans cover mental health and