prescription drugs, skilled nursing facility care, home health visits, and hospice care, among other services. Generally, individual s are eligible for Medicare if they or their spouse worked for at least 40 quarters in Medicare - covered employment, are aged 65 or older , and are a citizen or permanent resident of the United States. Individuals may also qualify for coverage if they are a younger person who cannot work because they have a medical condition that is expected to last at least one year or result in death, or have end -stage renal disease (permanent kidney failure requiring dialysis or transplant). The Appendix includes CRS reports that provide additional background on this program. • Medicare.gov https://www.medicare.gov/ This websi te provides extensive information about Medicare basics, coverage, providers and services, claims and appeals, and help options. • Medicare & You https://www.medicare.gov/ medicare -and-you This handbook is a beneficiary’s guide to Medicare. Available in print and electronic formats, this resource is updated each fall and has information about Medicare benefits, costs, rights, and protections. Beneficiaries are mailed print copies, and downloads are available in a variety of formats and languages. • State Health Insurance Assistance Program (SHIP) https:// www.shiphelp.org/ This resource focuses on SHIPs , which provide local, in -depth, and objective insurance counseling and assistance to Medicare -eligible individuals, their 3 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Contact Us , https://www.medicaid.gov/ about -us/contact -us/index.html . Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services Congressional Research Service 5 families, and caregivers. Click “ Find Your Local SHIP ” to select the applicable state and view contact information and state -level websites. • Medicare.gov: Contact Medicare https://www.medicare.gov/ talk-to-someone This interactive resource facilitates opportunities for individuals to talk or live chat with a professional about Medicare issues. It provides answers to questions about Medicare and includes contacts for topics such as enrollment, complaints and appeals, and Medicare costs and options. Call 1 -800-MEDICARE (1 -800- 633-4227 ); TTY users can call 1 -877-486-2048 . • Medicare.gov: Get help with costs https://www.medicare.gov/ basics/ costs/ help These sources help Medicare beneficiaries discover savings programs for premiums, manage prescription drug costs, and lower health plan costs. Military Health System The Military Health System (MHS) provides health care to military personnel, retirees, and their families in Department of Defense (DOD) hospitals and clinics —known as military treatment facilities —and through civilian health care providers participating in TRICARE, a DOD - administered health insurance -like program. (The Department of Defense is “using a secondary Department of War designation,” under Executive Orde r 14347 , dated September 5, 2025.) The Appendix includes a CRS report that provide s additional background information on this topic. • Military Health System Customer Service Community Directory https://tricare.mil/PatientResources/MHS -Customer -Service -Directory This website has a directory of TRICARE Contractor Customer Service hotlines. It also has a directory of Patient Advocates , Beneficiary Counseling and Assistance Coordinator s, and Debt Collection Assistance Officer s at military hospitals and clinics . • About the MHS: Contact Us