Insurance Cover? https://www.samhsa.gov/find -support/how -to-pay-for-treatment/know -what - your-insurance -covers This website from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) provides guidance on how to identify an enrollee’s mental health and substance abuse treatment coverage under their existing health plan. Most private health insurance plans cover mental health and substance abuse treatment. However , not all plans cover such treatment, and some will cover only certain levels of care. Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Medicaid and CHIP are means -tested health coverage programs for certain low -income populations. Each state designs and administers its own Medicaid and CHIP programs within federal guidelines. Eligibility criteria and benefits vary by state. Medicaid finan ces primary and acute medical services, as well as long -term services and supports . CHIP provides health coverage to certain children and pregnant people with family incomes too high to qualify for Medicaid. The following resources, provided by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services , help constituents identify offices and information on CHIP and Medicaid. The Appendix includes CRS reports that p rovide background on these programs. • Where Can People Get Help With Medicaid & CHIP? https://www.medicaid.gov/ about -us/where -can-people -get-help-medicaid -chip/ index.html This website lists state program websites and contacts for determining Medicaid and CHIP eligibility, applying for Medicaid or CHIP , and getting assistance with Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services Congressional Research Service 4 other related questions and problems . If a state agency cannot help, the CMS headquarters number for Medicaid questions is 877-267-2323 .3 • CMS Regional Offices https://www.cms.gov/ about -cms/ where -we-are/regional -offices This website lists email addresses for CMS regional offices that can help answer beneficiaries’ questions and concerns. Among its other duties, CMS is the federal agency that provides federal administrative guidance and oversight for Medicaid and CHIP. Ho wever, the state Medicaid agency is often a better first point of contact; see CMS’s “ You Must Contact Your State Medicaid Agency to ... ” at https://www.m edicaid.gov/ about -us/where -can-people -get-help-medicaid -chip/ index.html . • InsureKidsNow.gov (1 -877-KIDS -NOW or 1 -877-543-7669) https://www.insurekidsnow.gov/coverage This website and hotline can assist constituents with questions about Medicaid and CHIP health and dental coverage for children. The site also lists each state’s CHIP and Medicaid contact information. Medicare Medicare is a federal program that pays for covered health care services of qualified beneficiaries. It was established in 1965 under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide health insurance to individuals aged 65 and older, and it has been expanded over the years to include permanently disabled individuals under the age of 65. Medicare, which consists of four parts (A -D), covers hospitalizations, physician services, prescription drugs, skilled nursing facility care, home health visits, and hospice care, among other services. Generally, individual s are eligible for Medicare if they or their spouse worked for at least 40 quarters in Medicare - covered employment, are aged 65 or older , and are a citizen or permanent