assistance https://www.cms.gov/medical -bill-rights/help/guides/financial -assistance From the No Surprises Help Desk, this page describes options for obtaining assistance with hospi tal bills. 4 CRS Report R46856, Surprise Billing in Private Health Insurance: Overview of Federal Consumer Protections and Payment for Out -of-Network Services , summarizes consumer protections in the No Surprises Act ( P.L. 116 -260, Division BB, Title I). Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services Congressional Research Service 9 • Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: Is there financial help for my medical bills? https://www.consumerfinance.gov/ ask-cfpb/ is-there-financial -help-for-my- medical -bills-en-2124/ This Consumer Financial Protection Bureau website has tips for how to ask about and apply for hospital financial assistance programs. Some states have charity care laws that require certain hospitals to pr ovide free or disco unted care to eligible patients. Federal law also generally requires nonprofit hospitals to have a written Financial Assistance Policy and a written Emergency Medical Care policy .5 • Federal Trade Commission : Consumer Advice: Debt Collect ion F AQs https://consumer.ftc.gov/ articles/ debt-collection -faqs This Federal Trade Commission website provides answers to questions that constituents may have about debt collection, including medical debt collection. In particular, this resource provides information about consumer rights under the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act . • MedlinePlus: Financial Assistance https://medlineplus.gov/ financialassistance.html This National Library of Medicine website provides curated resources and tips for paying fo r health care. For example, it notes that “ you can also discuss concerns about paying your medical bills with your health care provider, social worker or the business office of your clinic or hospital ” and links to patient handouts such as “Eight ways to c ut health care costs.” • National Institutes of Health: Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center (1 - 888-205-2311) : How can you afford the care you need? https://resources.rarediseases.info.nih.gov/Resources/s/article/PatientResources - AffordingCare This National Institutes of Health information center has compiled resources on affording medical care . Many of the listed organizations assist with a wide range of serious medical conditions, not just genetic and rare diseases. Constituents can also call or email the center, where staff can refer them to additional resources for their specific needs. Finding Free or Low-Cost Health Care The resources below can help constituents find free or affordable health services in their communities. • Health Resources & Services Administration: Get Health Care https:/ /www.hrsa.gov/get -health -care The “Get Affordable Healthcare” section of this Health Resources & Services Administration (HRSA) website includes directories for (1) health centers , which have sliding fee scales and serve people regardless of insurance st atus or ability to pay ; (2) Hill-Burton facilities , which are required to provide a certain amount of free or below -cost health care to people who meet income guidelines ; and (3) 5 Internal Revenue Service, Financial Assistance Policy and Emergency Medica l Care Policy – Section 501(r)(4) , https://www.irs.gov/ charities -non-profits/ financial -assistance -policy -and-emergency -medical -care-policy -section - 501r4 . Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services Congressional Research Service 10 Ryan