to support their work with constituents and (2) background on some of the programs and policy issues mentioned in this report. This report is not intended to be a comprehensive catalog of all relevant resources; rather, it emphasizes selected federal or federally funded resources for questions that constituents frequently ask . Resources and Contacts on Health Coverage The information and contacts below may help congressional offices reply to consumers with questions about finding health coverage and problems with using their specific health coverage . General Resources on Finding and Understanding Health Coverage Some constituents may be eligible for free or low -cost coverage through Medicaid, the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) , or private coverage through health insurance exchanges (also called marketplaces) . The resources below , maintained by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) , can help constituents learn about and apply for such coverage.1 • HealthCare.gov (1 -800-318-2596) https://www.healthcare.gov/ 1 CRS Report R47351, Noncitizens’ Access to Health Care , summarizes health coverage options and eligibility for noncitizens, including authorized and unauthorized immigrants , which may differ from options for U.S. citizens. Connecting Constituents to Health Information and Services Congressional Research Service 2 This website and hotline connect constituents to the relevant federal or state health insurance exchange (marketplace) , where constituents can learn if they may be eligible for Medicaid, CHIP, or the exchange’s private heal th plans (as well as premium and cost -sharing subsidies). Constituents can also compare health plans and apply for coverage. Assistance is available in multiple languages. • HealthCare.gov: Find Local Help https://www.healthcare.gov/find -local -help/ This online directory identifies state and local organizations and “assisters” trained to help constituents understand their health coverage options (including private coverage, Medicaid, and CHIP), deter mine eligibility for premium and cost-sharing subsidies, and provide enrollment assistance . The directory also includes insurance agents and brokers. In general, health plan enrollees may contact their plans directly to verify enrollment or to ask about coverage of specific drugs, medical services, and health care providers. Enrollees can find their health plan ’s customer service phone number on their insurance card or on the health plan’s website . Below are additional resource s maintained by CMS that provide contacts for health coverage questions and problems. • Consumer Assistance Program https://www.cms.gov/ cciio/ resources/ consu mer-assistance -grants This website provides an interactive map of state -level contacts for assistance with health insurance questions . Some states operate Consumer Assistance Programs (CAPs) , where staff can assist with health insurance problems and quest ions. For states with no CAP, the map links to other contacts for resolving health insurance problems , such as the state insurance department or Medicaid agency . • Coverage to Care https://www .cms.gov/ priorities/ health -equity/ c2c This website provides consumer booklets and videos on using health coverage to get care. Topics include “Navigate Your Coverage,” “Access Care,” and “Manage Your Chronic Condition,” among other s. Some resources have been translated to other languages. • Find a