news gathering , and the remainder going to support distribution and emergency warning infrastructure. NPR’s annual budget is approximate ly $300 million, according to Maher.79 The PBS budget for FY2025 was $373 million, according to media reports.80 FCC Chairman’s Request for Investigation of PBS and NPR In January 2025, FCC Chairman Brendan Carr asked the FCC Enforcement Bureau to open an investigation of PBS and NPR member stations for potential violations of federal legal prohibitions against commercial advertising by public broadcast stations.81 Member stations typically run underwriting announcements before programs to recognize sponso rs. These 74 CPB , “FAQ : How Are CPB, PBS, NPR and Local Stations Related?” https://cpb.org/ faq (hereinafter CPB , “FAQ : How Are CPB, PBS, NPR and Local Stations Related? ”). 75 CPB , “FAQ : How Are CPB, PBS, NPR and Local Stations Related?” 76 See CPB Cruz letter, p. 5 . 77 CPB , “FAQ : How A re CPB, PBS, NPR and Local Stations Related?” 78 David Folkenflik, “Trump ’s FCC Chief Opens Investigation into NPR and PBS,” NPR , January 30, 2025 , https://www.npr.org/ 2025/01/30/nx-s1-5281162/ fcc-npr-pbs-investigation . 79 Marta Szpacenkopf , “End of Federal Funds Would Break Fabric of Public National Network, Says NPR ’s CEO,” Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas (blog) , April 2, 2025 , https://knightcenter.utexas.edu/ end-of-federal - funds -would -break -fabric -of-public -national -network -says-nprs-ceo/. 80 Julian Wyllie, “PBS Board Approves $373M Budget, Applauds Contract Extension for CEO Paula Kerger,” Current , June 18, 2024, https://current.org/ 2024/ 06/pbs-board -approves -373m -budget -applauds -contract -extension -for-ceo- paula -kerger/ . 81 Letter from Brendan Carr, FCC Chairman, to Katherine Maher, President and CEO of NPR , and Paula A. Kerger, President and CEO of PBS, January 29, 2025, https://www.capradio.org/ media/ 12276790/ chairman -carr-letter -to-npr- and-pbs.pdf (hereinafter Carr letter). Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 15 announcements must adhere to strict criteria prohibiting promotion of goods and services, use of inducements, or calls to action.82 In a letter to NPR and PBS leadership, Carr wrote I believe this FCC investigation may prove relevant to an ongoi ng legislative debate. In particular, Congress is actively considering whether to stop requiring taxpayers to subsidize NPR and PBS programming. For my own part, I do not see a reason why Congress should continue sending taxpayer dollars to NPR and PBS giv en the changes in the media marketplace since the passage of the Public Broadcasting Act of 1967. To the extent that these taxpayer dollars are being used to support a for -profit endeavor or an entity that is airing commercial advertisements, then that wou ld further undermine any case for continuing to fund NPR and PBS with taxpayer dollars.83 FCC Commissioner Anna M. Gomez, an appointee of President Biden, released a statement criticizing the investigation request as “yet another Administration effort to w eaponize the power of the FCC .”84 Additionally, several Members wrote letters to the FCC or issued public statements criticizing the investigation request.85