broadcasting. Beginning in the 1930s, some state universities and other educational institutions seeking to better serve rural populations pioneered the use of broad cast radio for remote learning . In 1938, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) set aside a portion of available radio channels for noncommercial and educational broadcasting , periodically updating policy as technology evolved .7 During this period, advocates viewed such broadcasting as a form of public education similar to that provided in public schools, which they argued should be free from commercial pressures and influences.8 In the early postwar era , the emergence and growth of television techn ology prompted efforts to develop noncommercial and educational broadcasting in the new medium. Federal support was largely limited to FCC set -asides of frequency spectrum for noncommercial and educational broadcasters —first radio, and then television —and limited grants made through federal agency appropriations .9 In the absence of regular federal funding of public broadcasting during this period, private philanthropies —and occasionally for -profit broadcasters —provided funding to support non commercial and educational broadcasting. The Ford Foundation and the Carnegie Corporation of New York became major supporters of this enterprise.10 Despite support from these and other sources, efforts at expanding the reach of noncommercial and education al radio and television broadcasts often had an experimental and improvisational character —especially outside urban areas . In early 1960s , one initiative —sponsored in part by the Ford Foundation and led by Purdue University researchers —deployed DC-6 airlin ers equipped 7 See Federal Communications Commission (FCC) , Fourth Annual Report: FY1938 , p. IV, https://docs.fcc.gov/ public/ attachments/ DOC -308653A1.pdf . 8 For example, see Ralph Steetle, “The Changing Status of Educational Television,” The Journal of Educational Sociology , vol. 32, no. 9 (May 1959), pp. 427 -433 (hereinafter “The Changing Status of Educational Television ”). 9 For description of educational initiatives of this era, see “The Chang ing Status of Educational Television .” The National Defense Education Act of 1958 (NDEA; P.L. 85 -864) authorized a total of $18 million in appropriations for research and de velopment of television, radio, and other media for educational purposes . For general information on frequency spectrum allocation, see CRS Video WVB00471, National Spectrum Policy: Concepts, Issues, and Options for Congress , by Jill C. Gallagher and Ling Zhu . 10 Philanthropy Roundtable, “Ford and Carnegie Create Public Broadcasting,” https://www.philanthropyroundtable.org/ almanac/ ford-and-carnegie -create -public -broadcasting/ (hereinafter Philanthropy Roundtable) . Ford Foundation records show $5.45 million (nominal dollars) in donations for public radio and televis ion since 2006, focusing on content production, technology, and professional development, with the most recent grant made in 2020. See Ford Foundation , Grants Database , https://www.fordfoundation.org/ work/ our-grants/ awarded -grants/ grants -database/ . Carnegie Corporation of New York records show $7.87 million (nominal dollars) in donations for public radio and television since 2004, focusing on content production for education and public affairs programming, with the most recent grant made in 2024. See Carnegie Corporation of New York , Grants Database , https://www.carnegie.org/