perceptions of bias in news coverage (see “ The Public Broadcasting Act of 1967 ” section) . Congress may also choose to fund the CPB with regular , annual appropriations to ensure greater CPB accountability to policy preferences of congressional majorities and the White House , rather than reinstituting advance appropriations. Alternately, Congress could structure the CPB or a successor organization within an existing federal department or as an independent federal agency with a d irector appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate . The director could pursue Administration policy priorities in public broadcasting subject to statutory guidelines and congressional oversight as would be done by any other agency head . Some, however, m ight perceive such an arrangement to be inconsistent with the original intent of the PBA to make federal public broadcasting a shared national endeavor insulated from politics and the electoral process . Fund Public Broadcasting Thro ugh Other Existing Authorities Congress may seek to create alternative structure s for support of public broadcasting stations or use certain existing authorities . The Public Telecommunications Facilities Program (PTFP) , established under the Public Telecommunications Act of 1992 ( P.L. 102 -356) as the successor to ETFA, provided funds for facilities construction until 2010, when Congress made its final appropriation. T he National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) shuttered the program in 2011 and repealed program regulations in 2017.111 Congress could fund the PTFP if it chose to make appropriations and provide appropriate guidance for reactivating the program as a vehicle for supporting construction of public broadcasting facilities with federal funds. Congress may also wish to continu e funding the RTL and NGWS programs , which were not addressed by the rescissions bill. In the latter case, the Trum p Administration disregarded legislative reporting language that directed it to use grant funds to support public broadcasting entities , reinterpreting statutory language to repurpose the funds (see “ Changes to the NGWS Grant Program for FY2025 ” section). Congress may provide guidance to federal agencies on administration of these programs , including what portion of program funding —if any —should be directed to public broadcasting entities , or specify this in statute . Additionally, it might create new grant programs to support PMI or other distributors of national programming not linked with the NPR or PBS organizations (see “Other Public Media Organizations ” section). Fund Public Broadcasting Activities Through Appropriations to Federal Agencies Congress might assign new authorities to federal agen cies, such as the Department of Education or the Department of Commerce , to carry out a public broadcasting enterprise . Congress might also direct an appropriate federal agency to use designated appropriations to fund broadcast stations and interconnection s in lieu of CPB support . Additionally, other agencies, such as the 111 Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, “Repeal of Regulations Governing the Public Telecommunications Facilities Progr am,” 82 Federal Register 43844, September 20, 2017. Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues