as the effectiveness of children’s programming in improving educational outcomes, adoption of new media technologies and formats, programming priorities, cybersecurity measures, and funding of local stations .120 Since 1988, Congress has require d the CPB to maintain an independent inspector general for oversight of the CPB and CPB -funded entities, including audits of local stations. Public broadcasters were likewise required to submit annual financial reports to the CPB and conduct public busines s meetings, which provided a measure of transparency into their operations. Such transparency may be diminished after the CPB dissolves . The relationship between public broadcasting entities and the citizenry at large may also change. Public broadcasting was supported by Congress as a public good available to every citizen at no cost. Some states provide funds to support public broadcasting stations under their jurisdiction, which may serve to perpetuate this miss ion in those states, albeit at perhaps a more modest scale than with previous federal support . Absent federal or state funding, p ublic broadcasters and content producers may prove less willing to serve certain minority or underserved rural audiences if the costs are deemed prohibitive or if more financially beneficial opportunities exist elsewhere. Author Information Brian E. Humphreys Analyst in Science and Technology Policy Acknowledgments Rachael D. Roan (Senior Research Librarian) contributed research to this report. 119 Mullin , “The Race to Rescue PBS and NPR Stations .” 120 For example, see CPB, Corporation for Public Broadcasting Appropriation Request and Justification F Y 2026/FY 2028 , May 30, 2025, https://cpb.org/ sites/ default/ files/ Public - %20FY%202026%20and%20FY%202028%20Justification%20to%20Labor%2C%20Health%20and%20Human%20S ervices%2C%20Education%20R elated%20Agencies%20Subcommittee%20%281%29.pdf . Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service R48545 · VERSION 16 · UPDATED 24 Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.