as it existed in recent decades , reestablishing the CPB under existing authorities might have the advantage of mitigating such disruptions —especially if this is done relatively quickly while much of the public broadcasting enterprise the CPB formerly supported is still intact. However, a CPB reestablished under the existing authorities may face the same controversies related to federal support of public broadcasting through a private nonprofit corporation , and the potential for future rescissions may complicate any effort to reestablish the CPB as it existed before being defunded and subsequent ly dissol ved (see “ The Future Federal Role in Public Broadcasting After the Rescission of CPB Appropriations ” section). Congress may create an alternate funding mechanism separate from the annual appropriations process to mitigate such potential complications —for example, b y creating an excise tax on certain goods and services, as suggested by the Carnegie Commission (see the “ Public Broadcasting B efore 1967 ” section). Congress cou ld dedicate revenue from the tax to the CPB , if reestablished, or other public broadcasting entities. Alternately, it could use a mechanism similar to that used to fund C -SPAN, in which commercial cable and satellite television operators contribute operati ng funds through a designated fee.110 Such mechanisms might provide greater independence to the CPB and consistent funding to public broadcasting but would likely reduce congressional oversight. Additionally, the variability of annual revenue might complicate CPB planning. Congress may repeal the PBA if it wishes to preclude reestablishment of the CPB under these or other conditions . Reestablish a nd Fund the CPB or Successor Organization with Changes Congress might consider amendments to the PBA to address previous disputes over the independence, objectivity, and balance of the CPB and the organization’s accountability to elected 110 See “How is C -SPAN funded?” in C-SPAN , “FAQ s,” https://www.c -span.org/ about/ faq/. C-SPAN subsequently diversified its fundraising through limited advertisements and viewer donations. See C -SPAN , “Our History,” 2026, https://www.c -span.org/ about/ history . Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 21 leadership. Some might argue that decisions about programming related to public affairs, early childhood education, national history, and other topic s are inherently value laden and, therefore , should reflect the values of the ele ctorate and the priorities of the nation’s elected leadership if they receive federal funds . From this point of view, Congress might seek to make a reconstituted CPB operate more like a federal agency than a private nonprofit. Congress could grant the CPB more centralized control over programming , akin to the authorities it held previously before these were transferred to public broadcasting stations in 1973 as a result of perceptions of bias in news coverage (see “ The Public Broadcasting Act of 1967 ” section) . Congress may also choose to fund the CPB with regular , annual appropriations to ensure greater CPB accountability to policy preferences of congressional majorities and the White House , rather than reinstituting advance