between radio programming acquisition grants (23%) and radio programming grants (7%). Figure 1 provides a visual representation of the allocation formula . Figure 1. Allocation of the CPB’s Federal Appropriation Source: CRS, adapted from Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) , “Appendix C —Formula for Allocating CPB’s Federal Appropriation,” in Appropriation Request and Justification for FY2023 /FY2025 , March 28, 2022, https://cpb.org/ sites/default/ files/appropriation/ FY-2023-2025-CPB-Budget -Justification.pdf . CPB grants were the largest single source of funding for public television and radio stations and for programming development and distribution . Station grants for both radio a nd television were known as Community Service Grants. On average, in FY2024 , 10.6% of a public television station’s revenue and 6.0% of a public radio station’s revenue c ame from CPB television and Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 13 radio station grants .69 The percentages for rural stations serving smaller audiences over larger broadcasting regions were often substantially higher because they generally had fewer alternative funding streams.70 The CPB took several factors into account in determining grant funding for individual stations, includ ing rural geography , service to minority audiences , independent fundraising, and status as sole media provider in a service area .71 Stations were required to apply annually for grants and meet transparency requirements for financial reporting and public oversight , among other requirements . Eligibility rules for Community Service Grants strongly favor ed incumbent licensees that received awards during the previous grant cycle. The predictability of this funding facilitated stations’ long -term planning and outside fundraising efforts. Programming grants to stations and independent producers were generally disbursed as competitive awards for specific public programming activities. Independent publi c broadcasters could also receive support from other federal agencies, state and local governments, community organizations, educational institutions, corporations and other businesses , philanthropic organizations, and individual donations from viewers and listeners. The Public Broadcasting Service and National Public Radio The Public Broadcasting Service ( PBS) was created by the CPB in 1969 to operate and manage a nationwide program distribution system interconnecting public television stations and to provide a distribution channel for national programs to those stations. Although PBS does not produce programs for its members, it aggregates funding for the creation and acquisition of programs by and for the stations and distributes programs through its satellite distribution system to nearly 350 local public television stations. National Public Radio (NPR) was created by the CPB in 1970 as a news -gathering, production, and program -distribution company governed by its member public radio stations. NPR has over 1,000 member and affiliate stations, according to the CPB. In contrast with PBS, NPR is authorized to produce radio progra ms for its members . It also provide s, acquire s, and distribute s radio programming through its satellite program distribution system. NPR Inc., located in Washington, DC, provides these administrative operations. NPR membership includes access to certain NP R-produced public affairs programs, but member stations retain control over programming decisions.72 Two-thirds