Media, ” 90 Federal Register 19415, May 7, 2025. 107 CPB, “Corporation for Public Broadcasting Statement Regarding Executive Order on Public Medi a,” press release, May 2, 2025, https://cpb.org/ pressroom/ Corporation -Public -Broadcasting -Statement -Regarding -Executive -Order - Publi c-Media . Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 19 CPB is not a federal executive agency subject to the President’s authority. Congress directly authorized and funded CPB to be a private nonprofit corporation wholly independent of the federal government. In creating CPB, Congress expressly forbade ‘any department, agency, officer, or employee of the United States to exercise any direction, supervision, or control over educational television or radio broadcasting, or over [CPB] or any of its grantees or contractors .…’ 47 U.S.C. § 398(c). NPR and PBS subsequently filed separate lawsuits against the President and senior Administration officials . On May 27, 2025 , NPR a long with three Colorado member stations filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. In the filing, the plaintiffs argued , in part, that the E.O. violated their right to free speech and was issued in retaliation for news reporting that angered the President . The plaintiffs also argued that President Trump did not have the authority to block duly enacted congress ional appropriatio ns to a corporation that Congress created as a private nonprofit to insulate it from political interference .108 On May 30, 2025, PBS—joined by a Minnesota member station —filed its own lawsuit, making arguments similar to those put forth in the NPR lawsuit.109 Options for Congress For nearly 60 years, the institutional parameters of the public broadcasting enterprise were defined largely by the relationship between the CPB and the public media organizations it created (PBS and NPR) , on the one hand, and local public media broadcasters under a variety of ownership structures , on the other. The re scission of CPB appropriations —followed by cessation of operations in early 2026 —may substantially alter these parameters. Congress may influence the scope, character , and extent of changes , depending on the policy options it chooses to pursue . Congress may consider four broad orientations for policy action or —alternately —may choose not to act, maintain ing the current status quo. Congress may (1) reest ablish the CPB and provide appropriations and policy guidance to the new organization under existing authorities , (2) provide appropriations to a reestablished CPB or successor organization under amended authorities , (3) provide appropriations for certain activities through other existing authorities, or (4) create new authorities to provide funding through federal agencies for support of certain public broadcasting activities, such as station and programming grants, e mergency alerting, and interconnection support . Reestablish and Fund the CPB Under Existing Authorities The Re scissions Act did not address the PBA , which remains law . If Congress were to appropriate funds through a future Departments of Labor , Health and Human Services , Education , and Related Agencies appropriations bill