-public - media -organizations -unite -to-chart -next-era-of-innovation -and-infrastructure -for-public -radio/ . 91 Benjamin Mullin, “NPR’s C.E.O. Was a Right -Wing Target. Then the Real Trouble Started,” New York Times , December 30, 2025, https://www.nytimes.com/ 2025/ 12/30/business /npr-katherine -maher.html . 92 White House, “Message to Congress,” May 28, 2025, pp. 21 -22, https://www.whitehouse.gov/ wp-content/ uploads / 2025/ 03/Proposed -Rescissions -of-Budgetary -Resources.pdf . The George W. Bush Administration requested rescissions of appropriated CPB funds through its budget requests for FY2006 to FY2010. The proposed rescissions were $10 million from FY2006, $53.5 mi llion from FY2007, $50 million from FY2008, $200 million from FY2009, and $220 million from FY2010. 93 For more information on rescissions, see CRS Report R48432, The Impoundment Control Act of 1974: Backgro und and Congressional Consideration of Rescissions , by James V. Saturno . 94 Protect My Public Media, “Corporation for Public Broadcasting,” https://protectmypublicmedia.org/ cpb/. Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 17 audiences, particularly children and minorities” through educational and cultural programming.95 Additionally, advocates in the emergency response community highlighted the role that public broadcasting play ed in the nati onal emergency alerting system —particularly in areas where commercial internet and cell service either are not univers ally available or affordable or have been taken offline by natural disasters .96 Critics questioned whether these were relevant and appropr iate roles for federally assisted broadcasting.97 They contend ed that public broadcasting lost much of its early impact as available media choices expanded over the last several decades and that , as a result, the federal role in public broadcasting needed to be reevaluated. Many question ed the 1967 law that created the national public broadcasting system and whether the federal government should be in the “business” of providing general appropriations to the CPB. For example, i n the 118th Congress, a House report , Concurrent Resolution on the Budget —Fiscal Year 2025 , included a comment about d iscretionary spending under the “Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services ” function that urged a cutoff of federal support for “cultural agencies.” It said, in part, It should not be the responsibility of the Federal Government to provide subsidies for cultural agencies, such as the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, the National Endowment for the Arts, and the National Endowment for the Humanities. This budget resolution recommends such agencies generate financial support from private -sector patrons.98 Some observers contend ed that the size and scope of the federal government budget deficit require d significant cutbacks in many areas. They argue d that federal support for public broadcasting was no longer necessary, given the increasing predominance of internet -based technologie s and formats in broadcasting that are broadly accessible to both producers and consumers of educational media content at a reasonable cost. Other observers noted that persistent gaps in internet coverage and affordability —particularly in low -income or rur al areas — may have limit ed some Americans’ access to these resources.99 Many critics of public broadcasting —particularly of