. Carnegie Corporation of New York records show $7.87 million (nominal dollars) in donations for public radio and television since 2004, focusing on content production for education and public affairs programming, with the most recent grant made in 2024. See Carnegie Corporation of New York , Grants Database , https://www.carnegie.org/ grants/ grants - database/ . Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 3 with television transmitter s to circle above sparsely populated areas of the Midwest and broadcast educational television programs.11 Advocates sought greater federal support for noncommercial and educational broadcasting to provide more cons istent financing to improve transmission technology and programming quality . Congress enacted the Educational Television Facilities Act of 1962 (ETFA; P.L. 87 -447) to support construction and upgrades to educational television facilities through a system of matching grants administered by the then -extant Department of Health , Education, and Welfare . In signing the bill, President Kennedy framed educational television as a Cold War national security imperative.12 The law authorized $3 2 million in appropriations over five years —or $3 39 million in April 2025 dollars .13 Other advocates framed public broadcasting as a cultural alternative to the “vast wasteland” of commercial television, enrich ing civic discourse , public education, and community life.14 In 1965, the Carnegie Corporation of New York created the Carnegie Com mission on Educational Television (the Carnegie Commission) to study the state of noncommercial and educational broadcasting in the United States and to study best practices from several other countries . President Lyndon B. Johnson publicly endorsed the ge neral objectives of the Carnegie Commission that year .15 The Carnegie Commission released its report, titled “Public Television: A Program for Action,” in January 1967 —an event that received national front -page news coverage .16 The report introduced public broadcasting into the mainstream lexicon, drawing a distinction between programming to support classroom instruction (educational television) and broadcasting of noncommercial content for the broader viewing community (public television ). The Carnegie Commission ’s primary recommendation was that Congress create and fund a nonprofit corporation to support production of public television content for local and national audiences. Other recommendations included (1) an excise tax on television sales to fund the new nonprofit public -broadcasting corporation —the Carnegie Commission argued that such a tax would provide a predictable source of funding not dependent on, or influenced by, the annual appropriations process —and (2) separate legislation for new authorities and appropriations, which would allow the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare to provide improved broadcasting facilities to 11 Allison Perlman, “Flying Classrooms in the Midwest: The MPATI ’s Experiment in Regional Educational Television,” in media res , February 28, 2008, https://mediacommons.org/ imr/2008/ 02/28/flying -classrooms -in-the- midwest -the-mpatis -experiment -in-regional -educational -television#:~: text= Utilizing%20Stratovision%2C%20a%20broadcast%20distribution%20system%20developed,reached%20schools%20w ithin%20a%20200%20mile%20radius ; and Carson Benn, The Midwest Program on Airborne Television Instruction and the Ford Foundation , Rockefeller Archive Center Research Reports, 2020, https://rockarch.issuelab.org/ resources/ 37719/ 37719.pdf . 12 John F. Kennedy, “Statement by the President Upon Signing Bill