fund broadcast stations and interconnection s in lieu of CPB support . Additionally, other agencies, such as the 111 Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, “Repeal of Regulations Governing the Public Telecommunications Facilities Progr am,” 82 Federal Register 43844, September 20, 2017. Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 22 U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Department of Energy, or the Bureau of Indian Affairs, might provide programming grants or other support relevant to their statutory missions .112 This approach may allow Congress to directly and more narrowly target funding to support local public broadcasting stations and specific programming activities without an intermediary . The federal role in public broadcasting may be more limited or siloed under such a scenario in which federal support was realized through multiple issue -specific grant programs administered by multiple federal agencies. It may also raise concerns regarding the independence of the public broadcasting enterprise from political control. However, this approach would retain some federal involvement in —and support of —public broadcasting . Take No Further Action Regarding the CPB and Public Broadcasting The public broadcasting enterprise has continue d after the dissolution of CPB , although its long - term prospects are unknown as of th e publication date of this report . Both NPR and PBS have released public statements indicating that they plan to continue operations after the CPB shuts down , albeit with cutbacks .113 At the same time, m any public broadcasting stations have reported record contributions from individual viewers and listeners, as well as from corporate underwriters .114 Some states provide substantial funds to public broadcasting stations and may continue to do so for the for eseeable future.115 Nonetheless, m any observers have predicted that broadcast stations located in more remote areas or those that serve economically marginalized audiences may struggle to keep operating without station grants provided by the CPB.116 In Augu st 2025, PBS announced a 21% cut to its annual budget in response to federal defunding of public television.117 The President and CEO of NPR said that 78 member stations face immediate risk to continuing operations and that roughly half would “have to make significant adaptations” to stay on the air . However, she voiced optimism that many of them will adapt to the changed policy environment and continue to operate.118 Several foundations have undertaken a 112 Prior to 1967, some support for public broadcasting was made through NDEA appropriations, and the ETFA was justified in part on defense grounds —see “ Public Broadcasting B efore 1967 ” section. According to media reports, in 2025 , the White House agreed to provide $9.4 million in grants to tribal public radio stations through the Bureau of Indian Affairs, drawing on previously appropriated Department of the Interior funds as a condition for Sen. Mike Rounds’ support of the Re scission s Act. See Jennifer Shutt, “US Senate Republicans Advance Bill Stripping Funds from NPR, PBS, Foreign Aid,” News from the States , July