Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress Updated February 25, 2026 Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov R48545 Congressional Research Service SUMMARY Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress Discussion of p ublic i nterest in educational or noncommercial programming da tes to the early days of broadcasting. In 1938, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) set aside a portion of available radio channels for noncommercial and educational broadcasting, periodically updating policy as technology evolved. In 1965, the Ca rnegie Corporation of New York created the Carnegie Commission on Educational Television to make policy recommendations on public broadcasting . It recommended that Congress create a private, nonprofit corporation to support the development of local and nat ional programming for public television (and later radio) . This was enacted as part of the Public Broadcasting Act of 1967 (PBA; P.L. 90 -129). The Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) was subsequently incorporated in 1967 as a private nonprofit corporation governed by a board of directors appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate . The CPB served as primary custodian of federal investment in public broadcasting until it was defunded by Congress in July 2025 . Congress rescinde d previously enacted appropriations for FY2026 a nd FY2027 on July 24, 2025 , through the Rescissions Act of 2025 ( P.L. 119 -28). However, a ppropriations authority remains under the jurisdiction of the Labor, Health and Huma n Services, Education, and Related Agencies Subcommittees of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees should Congress decide to reestablish the CPB in the future. In addition to funds appropriated to it directly by Congress, the CPB was authorized to receive federal grant funds from other agencies for educational programming, support of public broadcasting emergency alerting functions, and other purposes. The White House took several actions in 2025 to curtail the CPB’s role in the p ublic broadcasting enterprise, including directives to dismiss certain members of the CPB Board, to prohibit CPB funding of National Public Radio ( NPR ) and the Public Broadcasting System ( PBS), and to terminate or repurpose all other grant funding by feder al agencies. Several of these actions were being litigated in federal court when the CPB announced the planned cessation of its operations. (The CPB periodically received private donations , but these were not sufficient to sustain operations .) On August 1, 2025, the CPB announced that it was beginning an orderly wind ing down of its operations in response to the rescission of congressional appropriations and Senate appropriators ’ decision not to include CPB funding in their FY2026 appropriations bill . On January 5, 2026 , the CPB announced its intention to completely dissolve the organization. The dissolution of the CPB reconfigured the landscape of public broadcasting. Historically, t he CPB distribute d appropriated funds to independent public broadcasting sta tions and content producers according to a statutory formula . In FY2024, approximately 10.6% of public television and 6.0% of public radio broadcasting revenue came from