up to two terms consecutively. By law, one director must represent public television stations, and one director must represent public radio stations. No more than five directors may be affiliated with a single political party, but the law otherwise prohibits applying any “political test or qualification” for nominations or appointments . According to statute, director s must forfeit their positions for absenteeism , defined as missing 50% or more of meetings in a calendar year. The PBA provides no other specific guidance on removal of directors . Directors have typically represented a variety of professional backgrounds i n diverse fields related to broadcasting, such as public policy, community organizing, entertainment law, and corporate leadership. The PBA provides the board with authority to name and appoint CPB corporate officers and to fix terms of compensation. In addition, it mandates several oversight and facilitation functions. These include the following: • “facilitate the full development of public telecommunicati ons in which programs of high quality, diversity, creativity, excellence, and innovation, which are obtained from diverse sources, will be made available to public telecommunications entities, with strict adherence to objectivity and balance in all program s or series of programs of a controversial nature” ; • assist in the development of physical infrastructure to facilitate the widespread dissemination of public broadcasting content and in the development of public broadcasting entities; • ensure freedom of public broadcasters from external interference in developing of programming content and related activities ; and 23 P.L. 102 -356. 24 P.L. 102 -356. 25 P.L. 95 -567. 26 P.L. 95 -567 and P.L. 100 -626. 27 P.L. 95 -567. Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 6 • obtain and disseminate grant funding to public broadcasters for the production and acquisition of programming, as well as other expenses.28 Thes e legislative authorities and mandates guide d board activities. Meetings include d a public session and a confidential executive session. Directors also vote d to accept or approve financial statements, plans, and other documents . Through the end of FY2025, the CPB exercise d oversight of local stations through the Office of the Inspector General, which typically focuse d on ensuring use of CPB grants within program rules. The CPB Board and its officers d id not manage program ing decisions and other routine activities of local broadcast stations, which were independently licensed and operated . In April 2025, the White House moved to dismiss three directors appointed or reappointed by President Biden .29 The CPB subsequently contested the action in court , claiming that President Trump did not have authority under the PBA to remove CPB directors because , among other factors, the CPB was a private nonprofit organization.30 Further, the CPB argued that the action was taken with the intent to prevent the board from meeting quorum requirements to conduc t CPB business. The CPB Board had four vacancies at the time of the attempted dismissals, so the termination of three members would have left