interconnection support . Reestablish and Fund the CPB Under Existing Authorities The Re scissions Act did not address the PBA , which remains law . If Congress were to appropriate funds through a future Departments of Labor , Health and Human Services , Education , and Related Agencies appropriations bill , the CPB could resume operations. The CPB cited Senate appropriators’ decision not to provide funding in FY2026 as influencing its decision to cease operations and dissolve itself . 108 Complaint for Declarative and Injunctive Relief, NPR v. Trump , No. 1:25 -cv-01674 (D.D.C. 2025) , https://media.npr.org/ documents/ about/ press/ NPR%20Complaint%20for%20Declaratory%20and%20Injunctive%20Relief.pdf . 109 David Baude r, “PBS Suing Trump Administration Over Defunding, Three Days After NPR Filed Similar Case,” PBS News , May 30, 2025, https://www.pbs.org/ newshour/ nation/ pbs-suing -trump -administration -over-defunding -three - days-after-npr-filed-similar -case. See Complaint for Declarative and Injunctive Relief, PBS v. Trump , No. 1:25 -cv- 01722 (D.D.C. 2025) , https://www.courtlistener.com/ docket/ 70414813/ 1/public -broadcasting -service -v-donald -j- trump . Public Broadcasting: Background Information and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 20 Should Congress wish to reestablish the CPB in future years, it may appropriate funds to do so. However, given that the CPB will have ceased operations, several considerations apply. Congress may need to include instructions for reestablishing the CPB in a ppropriations reporting language or authorizing language expressing a “sense of the Senate” or “sense of the House .” Congress might wish to affirm that it intends for the CPB to operate in accordance with the PBA prior to enactment of rescissions in 2025. The PBA provides that members of CPB’s Board of Directors be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The PBA states that the members of the original board of directors serve as incorporators and that the organization must be incorporated as a nonprofit organization in the District of Columbia . To the extent that this process would apply to efforts to reestablish the CPB, the process could first require appointment of board members with Senate advi ce and consent. Fully reestablishing the CPB could involve acquiring office space, hiring staff, and performing other start -up activities , meaning that the CPB potentially would not be able to perform statutory functions immediately upon reestablishment . Congress could therefore consider an initial appropriation to fund start -up costs before making a full appropriation to fund grants to public broadcasting entities through the CPB . The rescission of CPB appropriations and subsequent dissolution of the CPB may disrupt e xisting federally supported public broadcasting activities, which involve long -term planning for programming, infrastructure investments, and station support activities . For those seeking to maintain public broadcasting as it existed in recent decades , reestablishing the CPB under existing authorities might have the advantage of mitigating such disruptions —especially if this is done relatively quickly while much of the public broadcasting enterprise the CPB formerly supported is still intact. However, a CPB reestablished under the existing authorities