of children’s television programm ing for the purpose of developing educational television programming of high quality. • “A capacity, consistent with the entity’s mission and nonprofit nature, to negotiate such contracts in a manner that returns to the entity an appropriate share of any anc illary income from sales of any program -related products. • “A capacity to localize programming and materials to meet specific State and local needs and to provide educational outreach at the local level. ”50 Although RTL grants were previously made to the CPB, other public broadcasting entities may be eligible for grants if Congress were to appropriate funds to be administered by the Department of Education or designated successor agency . According to the RTL program website, funds were not appropriated beyon d FY2024.51 Public Broadcasting Support for Public Alerts and Warning s In addition to providing programming for local audiences, public broadcasting stations help provide public alerts and warnings during emergencies . The CPB administer ed a competitive grant program for public television and radio stations to replace and upgrade their broadcast technologies to expand alert and warning systems and to create a more resilient public alerting system. The grant program is funded by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as part of the Next Generation Warning System (NGWS) grant program .52 NGWS is part of an upgrade within the existing public safety warning system known as the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System.53 According to the CPB, Congress made appropriations between FY2022 and FY2025 totaling $136 million to implement the NGWS Grant P rogram.54 The program was established and funded through the annual appropriations process . Congressional appropriators set forth priorities for the program in appropriations committee reports . In the report accompanying a version of a Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2023 ( H.R. 8257 ), congressional appropriators stated that [t]he first priority of the NGWS program is to help public media entities replace aging infrastructure that is essential to their role in civil defense and public safety missions. The 50 See 20 U.S.C . §7293(3) . 51 U.S. Department of Education , “Ready to Learn Programming, ” August 18, 2025, https://www.ed.gov/ grants -and- programs/ grants -birth -grade -12/early -learning/ ready -learn -programming#funding -and-legislation . 52 U.S. Congress, House Appropriations Committee, Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2022 , report to accompany H.R. 4431 , 117th Cong., 1st sess., H.Rept. 117 -87, July 15, 2021, pp. 76 -77 (stating that the committee expects the Federal Emergency Management Agency [ FEMA ] to work with the CPB to implement the Next Generation Warning System [ NGWS ] program) . 53 For more information on the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System, see CRS Report R48363, The Integrated Public Alert and Warning System (IPAWS): Primer and Issues for Congress , by Amanda H. Peskin ; and CRS In Focus IF12998, The Emergency Alert System: Status of Current Funding for Improvements , by Amanda H. Peskin . 54 CPB, “Next Generation Warning System,” https://cpb.org/