may be counted as offsets to newly enacted appropriations, nor do they include any scorekeeping adjustments (e.g., the budgetary effects of provisions limiting the availability of the balance in the Crime Victims Fu nd). In this report, p ercentage changes are calculated using whole, not rounded, numbers , meaning that in some instances there may be small differences between the actual percentage change and the percentage change that would be calculated by using the rounded amounts discussed in the report . In some instances, amounts in this report differ from amounts for the same account in previous editions of CRS CJS appropriations report s because past reports did not reflect supplemental budget requests or because there were differences in how legislative proposals are scored by the Office of Management and Budget and the Congressional Budget Office. Overview of CJS The annual CJS appropriations act provides funding for the Department of Commerce, the Department of Justice (DOJ) , select science agencies, and several related agencies. Appropriations for the Department of Comme rce include funding for bureaus and offices such as the Census Bureau, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administratio n, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Appropriations for DOJ provide funding for agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Bureau of Prisons; the U.S. Marshals; the Drug Enforcement Administration; and the Bureau of Alc ohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, along with funding for a variety of public safety -related grant programs for state, local, and tribal governments. The vast majority of funding for the science agencies goes to the National Aeronautics and Space Adm inistration and the National Science Foundation.1 The annual appropriation for the related agencies includes funding for agencies such as the Legal Services Corporation and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Department of Commerce The mission of the Department of Commerce is to “create the conditions for economic growth and opportunity.”2 The department “ works to drive U.S. economic competitiveness, strengthen domestic industry, and spur the growth of quality jobs in all communities across the c ountry .”3 It has wide -ranging responsibilities including trade, economic development, technology, entrepreneurship and business development, monitoring the environment, forecasting weather, managing marine resources, and statistical research and anal ysis. The department pursues and implements policies that affect trade and economic development by working to open new markets for U.S. goods and services and promoting pro -growth business policies. It also invests in research and development to foster innovati on. 1 The science agencies funded in the CJS bill are not the only fe deral science agencies. 2 U.S. Department of Commerce , “About Commerce: Mission, ” https://www.commerce.gov/ page/ about - commerce#mission , (hereinafter, Department of Commerce, “About Commerce: Mission”) . 3 Departm ent of Commerce, “About Commerce: Mission.” T Overview of FY2026 Appropriations for CJS Congressional Research Service 2 The agencies within the Department of Commerce, and their responsibilities , include the following: • Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) is a federal