of 2025 (H.R. 2031 /S. 948 ), introduced previously in the 119th Congress . A January 2025 final rule, “HOME Investment Partnerships Program: Program Updates and Streamlining ,” also made regulatory changes to requirements for small -scale housing and CHDOs that are comparable to, though distinct from , those in this section .65 Section 503/Section 5503. Rural Housing Service Reform Act In the past several Congresses, legislation has been introduced, and in some c ases approved in committee, to make changes to rural housing programs administered by the USDA’s Rural Housing Service (RHS). This section includes a number of provisions from these bills, including most of the provisions included in the Rural Housing Serv ice Reform Act introduced previously in the 119th Congress (S. 1260 ). Many of the provisions included in this section involve changes designed to “preserve ,” or maintain as affordable , multifamily rural rental properties financed through the Section 515 loan program or the Section 514 farm labor housing loan program. It would revise and make permanent various p rograms and p olicies that have been created and maintained via pro visions in annual appropriations legislation , including the Multifamily Preservation and Revitalization Demonstration (MPR) program, which has been included in annual appropriations acts since FY2006 , and Section 521 rental assistance decoupling, which has been included in annual appropriations acts since FY2024 . In addition to the multifamily preservation provisions , Section 503 include s provisions related to other RHS programs and activities. These include a number of revisions to RHS single -family progra ms—namely, the Section 502 direct and guaranteed home loan programs and the Section 504 home repair program —aimed at increasing program access or improving program outcomes. 64 Other deadlines would still apply to the use and expenditure of HOME funds. For example, gran tees are required to repay any funds spent on projects that are not completed within four years of the date the funds were committed, and HOME funds that are not expended within five years of the end of the period of availability specified in appropriation s acts (typically three years) revert to the U.S. Treasury. 65 For more details, see CRS Report R48422, HOME Program 2025 Final Rule: In Brief , by Henry G. Watson . ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 21 It would also require the Secretary of Agriculture to conduct a study o f the amount of payment subsidies provided under the Section 502 direct loan program, the amounts of subsidies that are recaptured, and the time and costs associated with recapturing those subsidies. This section would also formally authorize the R ural Com munity Development Initiative, which was first funded in FY2000 and provides funding for capacity building activities to assist eligible entities in carrying out h ousing, community facilities, and community and economic development projects in rural areas . This program has been fu nded in annual appropriations acts but has not been separately authorized. This section would authorize appropriations