by the Secr etary, not to exceed 30 years; and providing HUD with more flexibility to set terms and conditions related to leases when a manufactured home financed by a Title I loan is placed in a manufactured home community pursuant to a lease . In addition, t his section would direct HUD to conduct a study and submit a report to Congress on the cost effectiveness of offsite construction, including manufactured and modular homes . Similar bills have been introduced previously , including the Property Improvement and Manufactured Housing Loan Modernization Act of 2025 (S. 964 ) in the 119th Congress . Section 304/Section 5304. PRICE Act The FY2023 HUD appropriations law provided fund ing for a new Preservation and Reinvestment in Community Enhancement (PRICE) program to provide competitive grants to eligible entities for various activities in support of manufactured home communities. The program uses the authorities of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, which authorizes the CDBG program, though provisions in appropriations acts have given the HUD Secretary broad authority to waive requirements of statutes or regulations administered by HUD (with certain exceptions) to fa cilitate the use of PRICE funds. While the program has continued to be funded in annual appropriations acts, it is not formally authorized. ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 16 This section would amend the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 to formally authorize a version of the PR ICE program and would authorize to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the program. Like the program that has been funded in recent appropriations acts, the program authorized by the section would provide competitive funds to a range of eligible entities, including eligible manufactured home communities, state or local governments, Indian tribes, resident -owned communities or cooperatives, certain nonprofits, and community development financial institutions. Funds could be used for va rious enumerated activities, including reconstruction or repair of existing homes, replacement of homes, and community infrastructure, among others. The section would allow the HUD Secretary to set aside amounts for grants to Indian tribes or their triball y designated housing entities. It would also continue to provide the authority to waive most provisions of laws or regulations that the Secretary administers to facilitate the use of the funding. Bills to formally authorize a version of the PRICE program have been introduced previously , including the PRICE Act (H.R. 4477 /S. 943 ) in the 119th Congress. Title IV: Accessing the American Dream Section 401/Section 5401. Creating Incentives for Small Dollar Loan Originators Research generally shows that lower -priced properties are less likely to be financed with mortgages than higher -priced properties, and that applications for smaller mortgage loans are more likely to be denied.56 There is no formal definition of a small dollar mortgage , but researchers and in dustry participants have used the term to refer to mortgages below certain thresholds, such as $70,000, $100,000, or $150,000. While a number of potential