version of FSS featuring only the escrow account component of the program , without the caseworker and self -sufficiency plan requirements. This section is nearly identical to the Helping More Families Save Act of 2026 ( H.R. 4385 /S. 970) introduced previously in the 119th Congress . Section 405/Section 5405. Choice in Affordable H ousing Act Before a family can move into a rental housing unit with a n HCV, the unit must first be inspected by the local PHA to ensure it meets minimum federal quality standards. Assuming it passes, the unit must be reinspected annually thereafter as a co ndition of lease renewal. The Housing Opportunity Through Modernization Act (HOTMA) allowed a third -party inspection associated with another housing assistance program to temporarily meet the initial inspection requirements of the HCV program , allowing fam ilies to move in to units prior to the completion of the PHA inspection (which is still required) . This section would allow inspections under the Low -Income Housing Tax Credit program, the HOME program, or various Rural Housing Service programs to fully s atisfy the inspection ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 19 requirements of the HCV program, subject to certain conditions. It would also allow for remote inspections in rural or small areas and create a mechanism for landlords newly participating in the HCV program to have their units pre -inspected. It would further direct that PHAs provide a list of any such pre -inspected units to tenants when they are selected to participate in the HCV program. This section is similar to a section of the Choice in Affordable Housing Act of 2025 ( H.R. 1981 /S. 890) introduced previously in the 119th Congress . Title V: Program Reform Section 501/Section 5501. Reforming Disaster Recovery Act63 Periodically, Congress has provided supplemental appropriations for Community Development Block Grants for Disaster Recovery (CDBG -DR). This funding is intended to support needs unmet by other forms of federal disaster ass istance, including Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grants and Small Business Administration loans. Since 1993, Congress has appropriated more than $109 billion in supplemental CDBG -DR funds. Typically, CDBG -DR funds have been directed to the “most impacted and distressed areas ” with major disaster declarations under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (Stafford Act). Broadly, CDBG -DR funds are subject to the conventional CDBG program ’s statutory authority and regulatory requirements. CDBG -DR is otherwise not specifically authorized in the U.S. Code , other than on an ad hoc basis through the text of CDBG -DR supplemental appropriations. Historically, these appropriations have included sp ecific statutory directives and authorized HUD to establish waivers and alternative requirements as circumstances may require. This section would take several steps to institutionalize the CDBG -DR program . Specifically, the section would • delineate the dut ies of HUD vis -à-vis disaster response and recovery; • establish the Office of Disaster Management and Resiliency within the Office of the Secretary,