Section 209/Section 5209. Innovation Fund This section would create a new competitive grant program for units of general local government —including but not limited to metropolitan cities and urban counties —and Indian tribes. To be eligible for a grant, the local government or Indian tribe must have “demonstra ted an objective improvement in housing supply growth, as determined by the [HUD] Secretary.” The HUD Secretary would prioritize applicants that have “demonstrated the use of innovative policies, interventions, or programs for increasing housing supply, in cluding adoption of any of 31 Regulations specifying HUD’s procedures for responsible entity preparation of an EIS are in 24 C.F.R. Part 58, Subpart F. 32 “Infill project ” is defined in this section as a project that occurs within the geographic limits of a municipality , is adequately served by existing utilities and public services as required under applicable law , is located on a site of previously disturbed land of not m ore than five acres and substantially surrounded by residential or commercial development , will repurpose a vacant or underutilized parcel of land or a dilapidated or abandoned structure , and will serve a residential or commercial purpose. 33 HUD’s current CENST activities are listed in 24 C.F.R. §§50.19 or 58.35(b). Note that there are slight d ifferences in the wording used to describe these activities between the text of this section and the current section of the C.F.R. 34 Responsible entities are exempted from NEPA compliance and a review or compliance determination under 24 C.F.R. §58.5, howe ver they are still subject to additional HUD requirements under 24 C.F.R. §58.6. Further, Section 208(b)(1)(A) refers specifically to an exemption for responsible entities under 24 C.F.R. §58.34. Part 50 projects where HUD is undertaking similar actions ar e not similarly exempted by S. 2651 . 35 The eighth activity that would be newly exempted from NEPA review by Section 208 is “Emergency homeowner or renter assistance for HVAC, hot wate r heaters, and other necessary uses of existing utilities required under applicable law.” Note that there are slight differences in the wording used to describe these activities between the text of this section and the current section of the C.F.R . ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 10 the frameworks developed under section 203” and have “demonstrated a marked improvement in housing supply growth.” Individual grants would be a minimum of $250,000 and a maximum of $10 million, and may be used for a range of elig ible purposes, including the following : • activities eligible under the CDBG ;36 • surface transportation infrastructure projects and other activities permitted under the Local and Regional Project Assistance Program, also known as RAISE grants, TIGER grants, a nd the BUILD program;37 • matching funds for a state revolving fund program related to a clean water or drinking water program administered by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ; and • initiatives that facilitate the expansion of the supply of attainab le housing,38 or reduce