originator compensation permissible under Section 12B(c) of the Truth in Le nding Act (15 U.S.C. §1639b(c)) that would result in loan originators receiving compensation for originating small dollar mortgages that is not lower than the amount they would receive for originating larger mortgages. Section 402/Section 5402. Small Dollar Mortgage Points and Fees This section would address another issue that some observers have argued may hinder small mortgage lending : limits on points and fees for qualified mortgages (QMs). Originating a qualified mortgage is one way for lenders to meet federal requirements to make a good faith determination that a borrower has a reasonable ability to repay a mortgage loan.59 QMs must meet certain specified standards. Among other things, for a mortgage to be considered a QM, points and fee s must not exceed certain thresholds. Existing law allows the CFPB to adjust the points and fees thresholds for smaller mortgage loans.60 Accordingly, CPFB has set higher thresholds for mortgages with original principal balances of less than $100,000 .61 This section would direct the CFPB Director, in consultation with the HUD Secretary and the Federal Housing Finance Agency ( FHFA ) Director, to evaluate the impact of the thresholds under CFPB’s ability -to-repay and qualified mortgage implementing regulations on small dollar mortgage originations. (For the purposes of this section, “small dollar mortgages ” would be defined as those with original principal balances of less than $100,000 .) Following the evaluation, the CFPB Director would be authorized to initia te rulemaking to amend the points and fees thresholds to encourage additional small mortgage lending. Section 403/Section 5403. Appraisal Industry Improvement Act This section includes provisions that address concerns about appraiser workforce shortages and related appraisal challenges. It would make certain changes to standards that apply to appraisers who perform appraisals for mortgages insured by the FHA. One such change wou ld allow FHA appraisers to be either certified or licensed in the state where the property is located , which differs from current law that requires FHA appraisers to be certified.62 Another would provide more specific requirements related to how appraisers must demonstrate education in FHA appraisal requirements. 59 The Dodd -Frank Wall Street Re form and Consumer Protection Act ( P.L. 111 -203) established the ability -to-repay requirements. The C FPB’s implementing regulations are at 12 C.F.R. §1026.43. Originating a QM is not the only way to meet ability -to-repay requirements, but because QMs provide lenders with greater protection from legal liability, many lenders prefer to originate QMs versus non-QMs. 60 15 U.S.C. §1639c(b)(2)(D) . 61 12 C.F.R. §1026.43(e)(3) . 62 Certified appraisers are those who are approved to carry out appraisals on any single -family property. Licensed appraisers can only carry out appraisals on non -complex properties with values under a specified threshold. For more information, see the Appraisal Institute’s website at https://www.appraisalinstitute.org/ the-appraisal -profession/ become -an-appraiser . ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 18 In addition to these changes, this section would also amend certain provisions