pre-approved -housing -plans.pdf? rev= 1305001032434f4897b44b99dc137816 ; and Robert Steuteville, “Cities moving ahead with pre -approved house plans,” Public Square, a Congress for New Urbanism (CNU) Journal , February 7, 2024, https://www.cnu.org/ publicsquare/ 2024/ 02/07/cities -moving -ahead -pre-approved -house -plans . ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 11 This section is similar to the Accelerating Home Building Act of 2025 ( S. 2361 ) introduced previously in the 119th Congress . Section 211/Section 5211. Build More Housing Near Transit Act As mentioned previously, the federal government has recently considered whether to pa rtly condition existing federal funding sources on state and local zoning and land use policy. This section would incentivize states and localities to adopt certain housing and land use policies by adjusting evaluation criteria for the Capital Investment Grant (CIG) program . CIG is a discretionary funding program administered by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) within the Department of Transportation (DOT). It can be used for New Starts and Small Starts fixed - guideway transit systems (such as passenger rail and bus rapid transit) , and Core Capacity projects that expand existing fixed -guideway corridors to increase capacity.40 CIG was funded at $3.805 billion in FY2025, including $2.205 billion in annual appropriations and $1.6 billion in advance appropriations from the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act ( P.L. 117 -58). Under current law, i n order to be approved , a CIG project must receive an overall rating of at least three-out-of-five on each of two equally weighted summary ratings: Project Justification and Local Financial Commitment.41 Projects with ratings that equal or exceed t his level are typically recommended for funding if they have complied with other federal requirements. Under the amendments that would be made by this section , the Secretary of Transportation could increase a project’s Project Justification summary rating by one point (on the five-point scale) if applicants submit documented evidence of pro-housing policies for areas accessible to transit facilities along the project route. This section defines “pro-housing policy ” as “any adopted State or local policy that will remove regulatory barriers to the construction or preservation of housing units, including affordable housing units,” including reduced parking minimums, expanded by - right approval processes, reduced minimum lot sizes, and increased height limits. These policies are among the potential land use reforms that have been considered by state and local governments in recent years.42 The Secretary of Transportation —in consultation with the HUD Secretary —would also be required to “consider” whether th e adopted policies will result in an increase in housing units appropriate to expected demand . The proposed one-point increase in a project’s Project Justification summary rating would be in addition to existing co nsiderations of land use in project ratings. Under current statute and regulation, “land use” is one of six equally weighted justification criteria that comprise the Project Justification summary rating for CIG projects.43 Interim policy guidance for the land use criterion includes a quantitative examination of five factors in the