proposed agency action where the eff ects are unknown or reasonably foreseeable effects are not significant (unless a C E applies). ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 8 agency action if the action is excluded by statute or one of the agency’s categorical exclusions (CEs), or if another agency’s CE is applied consistent with 42 U.S.C. §4336c.24 Under current regulations, HUD exempts some project activities from specific environmental review requirements, including NEPA .25 For exempt activities, the responsi ble entity does not have to undertake any action under NEPA or other federal environmental laws and authorities. Even e xempt activities must comply with certain requirements including airport runway clear zones and accident potential zones , coastal barrier resources , and flood insurance.26 If a project is not exempted, HUD or responsible entities comply with environmental review requirements under 24 C.F.R. Parts 50 and 58 by pursuing one of the following levels of review:27 • Categorically excluded from NEPA . For categorically excluded activities, the responsible entity does not have to prepare an environmental assessment (EA) or an environmental impact statement (EIS), except in extraordinary circumstances.28 Some categorically excluded activities are su bject to the other related federal environmental laws and authorities listed in 24 C.F.R. §§50.4 or 58.5 (CEST) and others are not (CENST).29 These other related authorities listed in 24 C.F.R. §§50.4 or 58.5 include environmental requirements, guidelines, and statutory obligations such as the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. §§470 et seq.), the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. §§1531 et seq.), and HUD environmental standards specified in 24 C.F.R. Part 51, among others. • EA. Activities not ex empt or categorically excluded from NEPA must complete an EA.30 If, based on the analyses within the EA, HUD or the responsible entity determines that the project will not result in a significant impact on the quality of the human environment, it documents that determination in a Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI). • EIS. If it is evident without preparing an EA that a project may result in significant impacts or if the EA concludes in a finding of significant impact , HUD 24 42 U.S.C. §4336(a)(2). Further, 42 U.S.C. §4336e(1) defines a “categorical exclusion” as a category of actions that a federal agency has determined normally doe s not significantly affect the quality of the human environment. For additional information related to legislative CEs, see CRS Report R48595, Legislative Categorical Exclusions Under the National Environme ntal Policy Act , by Heather McPherron . 25 For a list of activities HUD exempts responsible entities from compliance with environmental review requirements, see 24 C.F.R. §58.34. 26 24 C .F.R. §58.6 . 27 HUD has made available a guide to the level of environmental review on the HUD Exchange website: https://www.hudexchange.info/ programs/ environmental -review/ orientation -to-environmental -reviews/ #level -of-review . 28 The presence of extraordinary circumstances indicates that, despite the typical lack of significant environmental impact associated with the action, the specific context or nature of the proposal