Doors in 2010 (and updated it in 2011, 2012, and 2015), Home Together in 2018, Expanding the Toolbox in 2020, and All In in 2022. See https://usich.gov/ federal -strategic -plan/ overview (accessed August 22, 2025 ). ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 26 Section 705/Section 5705. Appraisal Modernization Act The purpose of this section is to address concerns with appraisal bias.86 The section seeks to ensure the right of consumers to appeal and have home valuations reconsidered when initial appraisals are likely to contain errors. It would define unacceptable appraisal practices and an unsupported app raisal report that could trigger a request for reconsideration of value. If deficiencies were identified or discrimination was believed to exist in the initial appraisal reports, creditors would order and pay for second appraisal reports and forward the in itial appraisal reports to the appropriate appraisal licensing agencies or regulatory boards. It would also require creditors to establish formal review and resolution procedures for consumers when submitting requests for appraised value reconsiderations. In addition, this section seeks to increase transparency to further combat appraisal bias. Specifically, it requires GAO to report on the feasibility of establishing a public appraisal database with searchable and downloadable aggregated appraisal and home valuation data collected from Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, HUD , and VA. This section is similar to the Appraisal Modernization Act (S. 2322 ) introduced previously in the 119th Congress. Title VIII: Coordination, Studies, and Reporting Section 801/Section 5801. HUD-USDA-VA Interagency Coordination Act This section directs the HUD, USDA, and VA Secretaries to enter into an agreement to share data , with the purpose of facilitating evidence -based policymaking. The section also directs the three agencies to submit a report, within 180 days of enactment, to the Senate Banking Committee and House Financial Services87 Committee describing (1) opportunities for collaboration; (2) federal laws and regulations that adversely affect the availab ility and affordabil ity of new construction of assisted housing and single -family and multifamily housing with mortgages backed by FHA, VA, or USDA ; and (3) recommendations for Congress regarding those federal l aws and regulations. This section is similar to the HUD -USDA -VA Interagency Coordination Act (S. 1695 ) introduced previously in the 119th Congress. Section 802/Section 5802. Streamlining Rural Housing Act HUD and USDA administer a number of rental housing programs that have similar structures and are sometimes used in conjunction with one another. This section would require the two agencies to enter into a Memorandum of Unders tanding (MOU) to review and potentially revise the environmental review process and requirements across the two agencies and to explore the feasibility of joint physical inspections for properties assisted by both agencies. It would also establish an advis ory working group comprising various stakeholders to inform the MOU. This section is similar to the Streamlining Rural Housing Act of 2025 ( S. 2423 ) introduced previously in the 119th Congress. 86 For more information, see Office of Reverend Raphael Warnock, U.S. Senator