It would also establish an advis ory working group comprising various stakeholders to inform the MOU. This section is similar to the Streamlining Rural Housing Act of 2025 ( S. 2423 ) introduced previously in the 119th Congress. 86 For more information, see Office of Reverend Raphael Warnock, U.S. Senator for Georgia, Appraisal Modernization Act, July 17, 2025, https://www.warnock.senate.gov/ wp-content/ uploads/ 2025/ 07/Appraisal -Modernization -Act-One- Pager_FINAL1_newest -2.pdf . 87 The bill text reads “Committee on Finance of the House of Representatives,” which CRS presumes should read “Committee on Financial Services.” ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service R48732 · VERSION 3 · UPDATED 27 Section 803/Section 5803. Improving Self -Sufficiency of Families in HUD - Subsidized Housing Federal rental assistance programs —unlike some other social assistance programs —do not have work requirements for recipients. However, some PHAs participa ting in the original MTW demonstration used their waiver authority to adopt work requirement policies. This section would require HUD to conduct a study of work requirement policies among original MTW agencies, to the extent sufficient participation would be available and it would not negatively impact low -income families. Author Information Henry G. Watson, Coordinator Analyst in Housing Policy Katie Jones Analyst in Housing Policy Maggie McCarty Specialist in Housing Policy Darryl E. Getter Specialist in Financial Economics Libby Perl Specialist in Housing Policy Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.