Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) who become delinquent sh ould be given an opportunity to participate in available housing counseling, and allow the costs of such counseling to be paid fo r out of the Federal Housing Authority’s (FHA’s ) Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund (MMI Fund) if certain measures related to the financial stability of the MMI Fund are met. Title II: Building More in America Section 201/Section 5201. Rental Assistance Demons tration Program The Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD) was created in the FY2012 HUD appropriations law (P.L. 112 -55). It authorizes the conversion of Public Housing pro perties (and some other older assisted housing properties) to other forms of federal rental assistance, namely Section 8 project - based rental assistance or project -based Housing Choice Vouchers (HCVs) . The original RAD program was limited in both the number of units that could be converted a nd the number of years the demonstration was to be offered. Both the unit cap and the expiration date have been extended several times in subsequent appropriations acts, and the scope of RAD has been expanded to ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 3 allow for the conversion of Section 202 Housing for the Elderly properties. Currently, the demonstration is authorized through FY2029 and for up to 455,000 units of public housing.4 This section would eliminate the end date of RAD and the cap on the number of public housing units that can convert. This would mean that, over time, all remaining public housing properties could potentially be converted via RAD. This section would make other program changes, including requiring the HUD Secretary to report annual ly on the impacts of the program and authorizing the Secretary to take action against properties that violate the terms of the RAD conversion agreement, among other changes. Section 202/Section 5202. Increasing Housing in Opportunity Zones The 2017 tax rev ision ( P.L. 115 -97) temporarily authorized opportunity zone tax incentives, which are provided to encourage investment in qualified opportunity zones.5 Opportunity zones are lower -income census tracts nominated by state and territory governors. The Opportunity Zone program was permanently extended by the FY2025 budget reconciliation act ( P.L. 11 9-21), which created 10 -year cycles for the designation of new opportunity zones, beginning on July 1, 2026. This section would permit the HUD Secretary to give additional weight to competitive grant applicants located in, or that primarily serve, a community that has been designated as a n opportunity zone. The section would apply to “any competitive grant relating to the construction, modification, rehabilitation, or preservation of housing, as determined by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop ment.” Section 203/Section 5203. Housing Supply Frameworks Act Local governments’ zoning and land use policies have been identified by many housing market researchers as one of several contributing factors to an undersupply of housing, relative to demand , in some areas of the country . One federal approach to affecting local zoning and land use policy