mortgage amounts advanced for certain purposes during construction or rehabilitation, or otherwise prior to final endorsement of the mortgage.) The Secretary would be directed to publish a report describing the results of the review and recommendations of policy changes within one year of the date of enactment. The Secretary would also be directed to initiate a rulemaking within 120 days of the publication of the Housing Studies of Harvard University, July 2023, https://www.jchs.harvard.edu/ sites/default/ files/ research/ files/ harvard_jchs_pew_report_1_updated_0.pdf . 54 HUD ’s regulations related to manufactured housing are at 24 C.F.R. §§3280, 3282, 3284, 3285, 3286, 3288, and 3800, https://www.ecfr.gov/ current/ title-24/subtitle -B/chapter -XX. The construction and safety standards, specifically, are at 24 C.F.R. §3280. 55 42 U.S.C. §5402 . ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 15 report to examine an alternative dr aw schedule for construction financing loans to modular and manufactured home developers. This section would also allow the HUD Secretary to award a grant to study the design and feasibility of a standardized uniform commercial code for modular homes and would authorize to be appropriated such funds as may be necessary for this purpose. This section is substantially similar to the Modular Housing Production Act (S. 2489 ), introduced previously in the 119th Congress. Section 303/Section 5303. Property Improvement and Manufactured Housing Loan Modernization Act FHA programs authorized under Title I of the National Housing Act insure loans made for property improvements or loans to purc hase manufactured homes and/or sites , respectively . These programs are known as the Title I Property Improvement Program and the Title I Manufactured Home Loan Program. This section would make a number of changes to the se Title I programs. Several of the c hanges are related to the loan limits under the programs. Specifically, this section would increase the baseline loan limits for both the property improvement and manufactured home loan programs; expand an existing requirement to annually adjust the loan l imits subject to a chosen index so that the requirement would apply to property improvement loans as well as manufactured housing loans; direct HUD to annually adjust the loan limits by notice, rather than by regulation as specified in current law ; and dir ect HUD to develop or choose new indexing methods within a year of enactment. The section would also make certain other programmatic changes, including specif ying that the construction of additional or accessory dwelling units is an eligible use of Title I property improvement loans; amend ing the different maximum loan terms that currently apply for different types of property improvement and manufactured housing loans such that all loans would be subject to a maximum loan term to be determined by the Secr etary, not to exceed 30 years; and providing HUD with more flexibility to set terms and conditions related to leases when a manufactured home financed by a Title I loan is placed in a manufactured home community pursuant to a lease . In addition, t his section