co nsiderations of land use in project ratings. Under current statute and regulation, “land use” is one of six equally weighted justification criteria that comprise the Project Justification summary rating for CIG projects.43 Interim policy guidance for the land use criterion includes a quantitative examination of five factors in the proposed CIG project corridor: 40 A Small Starts project is a new fixed guideway capital project or corridor -based bus rapid transit project for which federal funding provided from the CIG program is less than $150 million and the total estimated net capital cost is less than $400 million. 41 Small Starts projects that cost le ss than $300 million and receive less than $100 million in CIG funding do not need to achieve a minimum rating to be eligible for a grant. 42 See, for example, Shazia Manji et al., Incentivizing Housing Production: State Laws from Across the Country to Enco urage or Require Municipal Action , Terner Center for Housing Innovation and Urban Institute, February 2023, https://ternercenter.berkeley.edu/ research -and-policy/ state-pro-housing -law-typology/ ; Jenny Schuetz, “How Can State Governments Influence Local Zoning t o Support Healthier Housing Markets?,” Cityscape , vol. 25, no. 3 (2023), pp. 73-98; and Christina Stacy et al., “Land -Use Reforms and Housing Costs: Does Allowing for Increased Density Lead to Greater Affordability?,” Urban Studies , vol. 60, no. 14 (Novemb er 1, 2023), pp. 2919 -2940. 43 Core Capacity projects consider “capacity needs ” of the corridor in place of land use. ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 12 population density, employment served, affordable housing near station areas, social vulnerability to disasters, a nd access to essential services.44 This section is similar, but not identical , to the Build More Housing Near Transit Act of 2025 (H.R. 4576 /S. 2363 ) introduced previously in the 119th Congress . Section 212/Section 5212. Revitalizing Empty Structures into Desirable Environments (RESIDE) Act This section would reserve a portion of HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME) appropriations for a new pilot program. The HOME program currently provides formula grant funding to states and localities to fund various affordable housing activities. Eligible activities include new construction, rehabilitati on, and acquisition of both rental and homeownership housing, as well as tenant -based rental assistance. Under this section, the HUD Secretary would be authorized to use up to $100 million of the amount by which annual congressional appropriations to HOME from FY2027 to FY2031 exceed $1.35 billion to carry out a new Blighted Building to Housing Conversion Program. The Secretary would be authorized to award grants of u p to $10 million on a competitive basis to states and localities that are eligible to receive HOME grants in that year. Grantees could use the funding to convert vacant and abandoned buildings into attainable housing.45 The Secretary would prioritize proje cts that are located in economically distressed communities or opportunity zones ;46 projects that serve a need identified in the jurisdiction’s consolidated plan;47 or grantees that have reduced “regulatory barriers