of the Community Reinvestment Act , by Darryl E. Getter . 8 See Novogradac, Senate Introduces Bill to Increase Cap on Bank Investments in Community Development , July 24, 2025, https://www.novoco.com/ news/ senate -introduces -bill-to-increase -cap-on-bank-investments -in-community - development . ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 5 This section is identical to the Community Investment and Prosperity Act ( S. 2464 ) introduced previously in the 119th Congress . Section 206/Section 5206. Build Now Act In recent years, Congress has considered whether to part ly condition existing federal funding sources on state and local policy actions o r housing production so as to incentivize increased housing development.9 This section would reallocate a portion of Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) formula funding between certain existing entitlement communities based on several criteria related to housing supply and afford ability.10 CDBG formula grants fund various community development activities including planning, public works and facilities, housing, public services, and economic development. CDBG was funded at $3.3 billion in FY2025. CDBG grants are among the largest and most flexible sources of funding provided by HUD to st ates and localities. Only some CDBG entitlement communities would be eligible for reallocation under this section . CDBG entitlement communities with relatively higher housing costs and lower vacancy rates (except those with recent disasters or no legal aut hority over land use policy) would be classified as “eligible recipients ” and may have their CDBG funding increased or decreased. “Extremely high-growth recipients ” could have their CDBG funding increased, but not decreased. This would include eligible rec ipients with an average annual percentage increase in housing units greater than 4% over the last five years.11 For eligible recipients that do not qualify as extremely high -growth recipients , CDBG funding could be increased or decreased based on their ho using production. Funding increases and decreases would be based on a calculated “housing growth improvement rate ,” specified as the quotient of an eligible recipient’s growth in housing units over the last five years and their growth in housing units over the five years before that,12 relative to other eligible recipients. Eligible recipients with a below -median value for this calculation, excluding extremely high -growth recipients, would have their CDBG allocat ions decreased by 10%. The aggregate amount by which allocations to these below -median eligible recipients are decreased would be reallocated to other eligible recipie nts, including extremely high -growth recipients, in proportion to their total number of h ousing units. The text of S. 2296 , as amended (§5206) , provides a different definition of the term “housing growth improvement rate.” The S. 2296 text defines this term as the difference between the current annual growth rate and the prior annual growth rate, divided by the sum of the absolute values of the current annual growth rate and the prior annual growth ra te. The S. 2296 text also changes the implementation dates, from the second full fiscal year after the date of enactment