requirements as circumstances may require. This section would take several steps to institutionalize the CDBG -DR program . Specifically, the section would • delineate the dut ies of HUD vis -à-vis disaster response and recovery; • establish the Office of Disaster Management and Resiliency within the Office of the Secretary, which would be responsible for coordinating HUD’s disaster preparedness and response activities, including c oordinating with interagency efforts to provide a comprehensive approach to working with communities on recovery and resilience activities; • establish the Long -Term Disaster Recovery Fund, which would fund CDBG -DR activities; and • authorize CDBG -DR as a stan ding program, including providing for funding mitigation projects. This section is similar to the Reforming Disaster Recovery Act (H.R. 5940 /S. 1686 ) introduced in the 118th Congress. Section 502/Section 5502. HOME Investment Partnerships Reauthorization and Improvement Act The HOME program provides formula funds to states and eligible local governments to be used for a range of affordable housing activities that benefit low -income households, including new 63 This section was authored by William L. Painter, CRS Specialist in Homeland Security and Appropriations, and Joseph V. Jaroscak, CRS Analyst in Economic Development Policy. ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 20 construction, rehabilitation, and acquisition of rental housing and housing for homeow nership, as well as tenant -based rental assistance. Each participating state and locality must reserve at least 15% of its HOME funding for qualified Community Housing Development Organizations (CHDOs), which are nonprofit s that meet certain legal and orga nizational requirements. While there have been some legislative and regulatory changes over the years , the program has not been reauthorized by Congress since 1992 as part of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 ( P.L. 102 -550). This section would authorize such sums as may be necessary for HOME. It would also make various program revisions, such as increasing the percentage of funds that grantees may use for administrative costs; clarifying how the purchase price of housing for homeownership is defined ; providing that, notwithstanding resale restrictions that overwise apply, Community Land Trusts can acquire HOME -assisted housing for certain specified purposes; reducing requirements for owners of “small -scale housing ” (housing with not more than four rental units) ; and lowering requirements for organizations to qualify as CHDOs . The section would also eliminate a 24 - month commitment deadline for HOME grantees, and would allow these grantees to use funds reserved for CHDOs for other eligible activities after 24 months. These commitment deadlines have sometimes, but not always, been waived in annual appropriations acts.64 This section shares some provisions with the HOME Investment Partnerships Reauthorization and Improvement Act of 2025 (H.R. 2031 /S. 948 ), introduced previously in the 119th Congress . A January 2025 final rule, “HOME Investment Partnerships Program: Program Updates and Streamlining ,” also made regulatory changes to requirements for small -scale housing and CHDOs that are comparable to, though distinct from , those in