codes, manufactured homes are subject to a national building code : HUD’s Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standar ds (often referred to as the HUD Code ).54 HUD was directed to develop these standards by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974. The standards first went into effect in 1976, and HUD updates the m periodically with input from the Manufactured Housing Consen sus Committee. The statutory definition of a “manufactured home ” includes the requirement that the home is “built on a permanent chassis.”55 (A chassis is the steel frame that provides the base of a vehicle.) Some have argued that the requirement for the c hassis to be permanent is outdated and unnecessary, because most manufactured homes are not moved once they have been installed on a home site. Allowing the chassis to be removed may facilitate a greater range of design and siting options for manufactured home s, such as basements or multiple stories ; though i t may also raise questions about distinctions between manufactured homes and other types of factory -built homes (such as modular homes ). This section would amend the statutory definition of a manufactu red home to provide that the home may be “with or without a permanent chassis.” It would also establish procedures for states to certify to the HUD Secretary that the state has amended its laws and regulations to treat manufactured homes without a permanen t chassis the same as those with a permanent chassis . If a state did not submit such a certification by the date required, manufactured homes without a permanent chassis that are constructed after the date of enactment would be prohibited from being manufa ctured, installed, or sold in the state. A bill with nearly identical provisions , the Housing Supply Expansion Act of 2025 (S. 2414 ), was introduced previously in the 119th Congress. Section 302/Section 5302. Modular Housing Production Act Another type of factory -built housing is modular housing. Modular housing is constructed in a factory in modules that are transported to a home site to be installed. Unlike manufactured homes, which are subject to the HUD Code, modular homes are subject to state and local building codes like site -built homes. This section would direct the HUD Secretary to review FHA construction financing programs to identify barriers to using modular building methods, including regulatory and programmatic features that re strict participation by modular home builders . It would also direct the HUD Secretary to identify measures authorized under Section 525 of the National Housing Act that may facilitate modular developers’ participation. (Section 525 of the National Housing Act, 12 U.S.C. §1735f -3, authorizes the Secretary to insure mortgage amounts advanced for certain purposes during construction or rehabilitation, or otherwise prior to final endorsement of the mortgage.) The Secretary would be directed to publish a report describing the results of the review and recommendations of policy changes within one year of the date of enactment. The Secretary would