PHAs selected by HUD could be PHAs administering fewer than 27,000 combined units. Section 505/Section 5505. Reducing Homelessness Through Program Reform Act HUD administers two Homeless As sistance Grants, the Continuum of Care (CoC) program and the Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) program . This section would primarily make changes to the CoC program , which is a competitive grant to private nonprofit organizations , PHAs , governmental entities, and tribes that can be used to provide transitional housing, rapid rehousing (a form of short -term rental assistance ), permanent supportive housing, and services to people ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 22 experiencing homelessness. CoC grantees and other stakeholder s in a geographic area establish local priorities and strategies to address homelessness in their communities and together submit a unified application to HUD for CoC grants through a designated collaborative applicant . Among other things, this section would allow the HUD Secretary to release a notice of funding opportunity (NOFO) to cover two successive CoC grant years ,66 increase the percentage of allowable administrative costs for collaborative applicants , allow for remote or video inspection of housing units under certain circumstances , allow program income to count toward match requirements ,67 and ease the process for tribes to administer funds. In addition, this section would direct GAO to study hiring, retention, and compensation levels among the workforce who provide supportive services under the CoC program, and to conduct an evaluation of coordinated entry, the process through which CoC program grantees prioritize available interventions for people experiencing homelessness. It would also direct t he National Academies to review research regarding connections between access to affordable health care and homelessness, and it would authorize a demonstration program for housing and health providers to coordinate data systems and serve people experienci ng chronic homelessness . These provisions are substantially similar to those in the Reducing Homelessness through Program Reform Act (S. 2234 ) introduced previously in the 119th Congress. Section 506/Section 5506. Incentivizing Local Solutions to Homelessness The ESG program is a formula grant to states, local governm ents, and territories that can be used to assist people experiencing homelessness in various ways. Eligible uses of funds are emergency shelter (including capital costs and maintenance/operating costs) , supportive services to shelter residents, street outr each, rapid rehousing, and homelessness prevention activities.68 The ESG statute caps the amount of funds that can be allocated to street outreach and emergency shelter activities to the greater of 60% of a grantee’s allocation or the amount expended for t hose activities in FY2010.69 This section would allow ESG grantees that meet certain requirements, including demonstrating local need, to request that the HUD Secretary waive th e cap on funds spent on the costs of street outreach and emergency shelter for their FY2026 -FY2029 funding allocations . Title VI: Veterans and Housing Section 601/Section 5601. VA Home Loan Awareness Act The Uniform Residential Loan Application (URLA) is used by lenders to collect information from mortgage