guide to the level of environmental review on the HUD Exchange website: https://www.hudexchange.info/ programs/ environmental -review/ orientation -to-environmental -reviews/ #level -of-review . 28 The presence of extraordinary circumstances indicates that, despite the typical lack of significant environmental impact associated with the action, the specific context or nature of the proposal may lead to unforeseen or elevated environmental effects (e.g., impacts to federally listed species, historic resources, or sensitive ecosystems). If extraordinary circumstances are present and the effects to those resources cannot be avoided or mitigated, the agency may have to prepare an EA or EIS. 29 For a list of C ENST activities, see 24 C.F.R. §§50.19 and 58.35(a). For a list of CEST activities, see 24 C.F.R. §§50.20(a) and 58.35(b). 30 Regulations specifying HUD’s procedures for preparing an EA are in Subpart E of both 24 C.F.R. Parts 50 and 58. For a description o f which activities are considered “Part 50” or “Part 58” projects, see “Section 207/Section 5207 . Better Use of Intergovernmental and Local Development (BUILD) Housing Act ” in this report. ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 9 or the responsible entity must prepare an EIS and documents its finding in a record of decision .31 Some stakeholders have argued that environmental reviews add costs and delays to housing development, while others argue that such reviews are necessary to protect both the environment and human health. This section would modify the environmental review requi rements for several housing activities . It would categorically exclude seven activities that may have previously required an EA or an EIS, although these activities would remain subject to related federal environmental laws and authorities (i.e., CEST) . One of the activities that would be newly excluded by this section is “infill projects consisting of new construction, rehabilitation, or development of residential housing units.”32 This section would also reclassify four current CEST activities —categorica lly excluded under 24 C.F.R. §§50.20 and 58.35( b)—such that they no longer would require a review or compliance determination under related federal environmental laws and authorities (i.e., CENST) .33 These reclassified categorical exclusions would only apply “if such activities do not materially alter environmental conditions and do not materially exceed the original scope of the project.” The section would also exempt responsible entities from HUD’s environmental revi ew requirements for eight additional housing activities.34 Seven of these newly exempted housing activities are currently CENST activities categorically excluded from NEPA review under 24 C.F.R. §58.35(b) and not subject to related federal environmental la ws and authorities.35 This section is substantially similar to the Unlocking Housing Supply Through Streamlined and Modernized Reviews Act ( H.R. 4660 /S. 2390 ) introduced previously in the 119th Congress. Section 209/Section 5209. Innovation Fund This section would create a new competitive grant program for units of general local government —including but not limited to metropolitan cities and urban counties —and Indian tribes. To be eligible for a grant, the local government or Indian tribe must have “demonstra ted an