to rental properties repaired through the program , including a cap on annual rent increases for assisted units for at least three years . The section would authorize HUD to use up to $30 million of funds made available in appropriations acts for programs administered by HUD’s Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes to carry out the program . The program would terminate on October 1, 2031. The text of S. 2296 , as amended (§5204) , includes an additional provision ensuring that rental properties assi sted under this section shall be treated as projects assisted under Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. §§5301 et seq.) The S. 2296 text also includes an additional clause clarifying that loans that are not forgiven, and are reused by the implementing organization for a new grant or loan, shall remain subjec t to the original terms of the assistance awarded under this section. A similar bill , the Whole -Home Repairs Act of 2025 (S. 127 ), was introduced previously in the 119th Congress. Section 205/Section 5205. Community Investment and Prosperity Act The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA; P.L. 95 -128, as amended; 12 U.S.C. §§2901 -2908), was enacted to encourage banks to meet the credit needs of the localities in which they were chartered.7 The CRA specifically encourages banks to make “public welfare investments ” (PWIs) , which promote the public welfare by providing housing, services, or jobs that primarily bene fit low- and moderate -income individuals. The PWI authority allows banks to engage in activities that typically would not be permitted , as long as these activities promote the public welfare and do not expose institutions to unlimited liability. For example, banks generally cannot make direct purchases of the preferred or common equity shares of other banking firms. They may, however, purchase equity shares of institutions with a primary mission of community development up to an allowable limit . The Financial Services Regulatory Relief Act of 2006 ( P.L. 109 -351) amended Section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of the United States and the Federal Reserve Act to limit investments made to a single institution to 15% of a bank’s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus. The 15% cap limits a bank’s exposure to a si ngle borrower and encourages diversification of its loan portfolio. This section would increase the current cap of 15% to 20% of a bank’s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus for investments made to a single institution. The increase may encourage banks to make PWIs, thereby increasing credit availability for the construction of more affordable housing and for small businesses.8 7 For more information, s ee CRS Report R48096, Modernization of the Community Reinvestment Act , by Darryl E. Getter . 8 See Novogradac, Senate Introduces Bill to Increase Cap on Bank Investments in Community Development , July 24, 2025, https://www.novoco.com/ news/ senate -introduces -bill-to-increase -cap-on-bank-investments -in-community - development . ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 5