previously in the 118th Congress ( H.R. 9990 /S. 5027 ). The 13 sections in the ROAD to Housing Act introduced in the 118th Congress each have an analogous section in the ROAD to Housing Act of 2025. However, the ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 includes 27 additional sections, and the sections that are analogous between the two bills are, in some cases, substantially different. The section summaries in this report do not document differences between the ROAD to Housing Act and the ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 for every section. 3 Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, Majority, “Scott, Warren Lead Banking Committee in Unanimously Advancing Comprehensive Housing Legislation,” press release, July 29, 2025, https://www.banking.senate.gov/ newsroom/ majority/ scott -warren -lead-banking -committee -in-unanimously -advancing - comprehen sive-housing -legislation . ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 2 Status of Legislative Action Following mark up and unanimous approval of a draft measure on July 29, 2025, t he ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 was introduced and reported by the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs on August 1. The measure was reported to the Senate without written report. The text of the bill was separately submitted as an amendm ent to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026 ( S.Amdt. 3901 to S.Amdt. 3748 to S. 2296 ) on August 1 . On October 9, the amendment was agreed to in the Senate and this version of the National Defense Authorization Act was passed by the Senate. Summary of S. 2651 Title I: Improving Financial Literacy Section 101/Section 5101. Reforms to Housing Counseling and Financial Literacy Programs U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) -approved housing counseling agencies provide guidance on a range of housin g topics, including pre - and post -purchase homeownership counseling and rental housing counseling. HUD approves housing counseling agencies that meet specified criteria, administers housing counselor certification requirements, and provides competitive gra nts to HUD -approved housing counseling organizations. Statutory requirements related to HUD -approved housing counseling agencies are at 12 U.S.C. §1701x. This section would amend 12 U.S.C. §1701x to make certain changes to HUD housing counseling requiremen ts. These would include changes to language governing the distribution of housing counseling funds; the addition of certain provisions related to performance reviews; adding provisions describing actions the HUD Secretary can take upon a determination that an individual counselor lacks competence, based on certain measures; and adding provisions related to the termination of assistance to organizations under certain circumstances. It would also provide that borrowers with mortgages made, guaranteed, or insu red by HUD, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs ( VA), or the U.S. Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) who become delinquent sh ould be given an opportunity to participate in available housing counseling, and allow the costs of such counseling to be paid fo r out of the Federal Housing Authority’s (FHA’s ) Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund (MMI Fund) if certain measures