carry out appraisals on non -complex properties with values under a specified threshold. For more information, see the Appraisal Institute’s website at https://www.appraisalinstitute.org/ the-appraisal -profession/ become -an-appraiser . ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 18 In addition to these changes, this section would also amend certain provisions of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act (FIRREA) that apply to appraisals more generally. It would amend a provision related to annual registry fees to allow the Appraisal Subcommittee —with the approval of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council —to adjust the fees charged to appraisal management companies . It would also amend the disclosure requirements for the annual reports on the licensing, certification, and disciplinary actions that are submitted annually by each state to the Appraisal Subcommittee. In addition, it would include state credentialed trainee appraisers on the na tional appraiser registry and allow state licensed appraisers to use the assistance of state credentialed trainee appraisers or unlicensed trainee appraisers, provided that the state certified appraiser would remain liable for the work. This section would also amend FIRREA to add the provision of certain workforce training or education grants to a list of activities that the Appraisal Subcommittee should fund, and to include designees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, USDA’s Rural Housing Service, and HUD on the Appraisal Subcommittee. This section is similar to the Appraisal Industry Improvement Act (S. 1635 ) introduced previously in the 119th Congress. Section 404/Section 5404. Helping More Families Save Act The Family Self -Sufficiency (FSS) program —originally authorized in 1992 —was designed to reduce the implicit tax on new earnings associated with federal rental assistance programs that charge income -based rents . Families participating in FSS develop five -year self-sufficiency plan s, with the assistance of an FSS caseworker . Over the course of that five -year period, any increases in rent the family must pay that are attributable to increased earnings are deposited in an interest - bearing escrow account for the family. Upon successful completion of the program, the family receives the escrowed funds (interim withdrawals are permissible for eligible activities). The program was originally made available only to famili es receiving H CVs, but it was later expanded to tenants in other forms of assisted housing. Participation in FSS is optional for both PHAs and owners, as well as tenants. Demand exceeds available funding. PHAs and landlords who wish to participate must app ly for limited FSS caseworker funding from HUD. In some cases, there are waitlists for families at participating PHAs and properties. This section would create a new Escrow Expansion Pilot within FSS that would allow up to 5,000 families to participate in a streamlined version of FSS featuring only the escrow account component of the program , without the caseworker and self -sufficiency plan requirements. This section is nearly identical to the Helping More Families Save Act of 2026 ( H.R. 4385 /S. 970) introduced previously in the 119th Congress . Section 405/Section 5405.