Frameworks Act Local governments’ zoning and land use policies have been identified by many housing market researchers as one of several contributing factors to an undersupply of housing, relative to demand , in some areas of the country . One federal approach to affecting local zoning and land use policy has been to provide guidance , technical assistance, and research to promote pro -housing development reforms . For this purpose, HUD has maintained the Regulator y Barriers Clearinghouse (RBC) since 2001 , as required in statute (42 U.S.C. §12705d) . The RBC collects , disseminate s, and publishes research and examples pertaining to state and local regulations and policies that affect affordable housing .6 This sectio n would abolish the RBC and require HUD’s Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research to publish guidelines and best practices —in consultation with a task force consisting of academics, practitioners, and state and local officials —with respect to state and local zoning and land use policies (referred to in the bill as “zoning frameworks”) . This section would also require a U.S. G overnment Accountability Office ( GAO ) report on housing supply , in addition to reporting and monitoring by the HUD Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research . Similar guidelines and best practices to those required by this section were introdu ced previously in the Housing Supply and Innovation Frameworks Act ( H.R. 10351 ) and Section 4 of the Reducing Regulatory Barriers to Housing Act ( H.R. 8604 /S. 4460 ) in the 118th Congress . 4 HUD has conducted two comprehensive RAD evaluations, which can be found online at http://huduser.gov/ portal/ RAD_Evaluation.html . 5 For more information, see CRS Rep ort R45152, Tax Incentives for Opportunity Zones , by Donald J. Marples . 6 See, for example, HUD , Eliminating Regulatory Barriers to Affordable Housing: Federal, State, Local, and Tribal Opportunities , January 19, 2021, https://www.huduser.gov/ portal/ publications/ eliminating -regulatory -barriers -to- affordable -housing.htm l. ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 Congressional Research Service 4 Section 204/Section 5204. Whole-Home Repairs Act This section would direct the HUD Secretary to establish a pilot program to provide grants to states or local governments to fund certain home repair activities. Implementing entities would provide grants to low -income homeowners and loans to landlords that meet certa in criteria for “whole -home repairs” not covered by other federal home repair programs . Eligible whole -home repairs would be defined to include modifications, repairs, or updates to address accessibility for individuals with disabilities or older adults ; habitability or safety concerns ; or energy and water efficiency, resilience, and weatherization. Landlords who received assistance would be required to agree to certain conditions related to rental properties repaired through the program , including a cap on annual rent increases for assisted units for at least three years . The section would authorize HUD to use up to $30 million of funds made available in appropriations acts for programs administered by HUD’s Office of Lead