adversaries and protec t the First Island Chain.”17 Meanwhile, the latest National Defense Strategy says, “South Korea is capable of taking primary responsibility for deterring North Korea with critical but more limited U.S. support.”18 Potentially as part of its goal to have So uth Korea lead more in the alliance, the Trump Administration has expressed support for South Korea’s interest in acquiring nuclear submarines. Depending on the parameters of cooperation between the United States and South Korea on the development of nucle ar-powered submarines , it could require a new bilateral nuclear cooperation agreement under the Atomic Energy Act (AEA) of 1954, as amended (P.L. 83 -703; 42 U.S.C. §§2111 et seq ).19 The Trump Administration also has indicated an increased focus on wider regional threats in the Indo -Pacific such as China, which could lead to the reconfiguration of U.S. forces in South Korea.20 The Lee administration has pledged to increase ROK defense spending, purchase more U.S. weapons, and continue to modernize ROK forces.21 Both sides also have committed to accelerate changes to alliance command -and-control structures and enhance trilateral cooperation with Japan , topics touched on in the FY2026 NDAA .22 South Korean Political Parties and the Alliance According to multiple polls conducted in recent years, over 85% of South Koreans say they value the U.S. -ROK alliance and over 70% have reported positive opinions of the United States.23 Since at least 2014, South Koreans have consistently indicated that t he United States is their favorite nation, according to one opinion poll.24 Although South Korea’s two main parties support the U.S.-ROK alliance, historically they have held notably different views on how to approach North Korea, China, and Japan. In gene ral, compared to their conservative counterparts, left -of-center Minjoo Party politicians have tended to advocate for South Korea ’s achieving greater strategic autonomy, to promote more conciliatory approaches to North Korea, and to express greater distrus t of Japan. Compared to their progressive counterparts, right -of-center People Power Party (PPP) politicians have tended to emphasize the importance of maintaining a strong U.S. -ROK alliance, to be more skeptical of the value of engaging North Korea, to ex press less reluctance to enter into formal cooperative arrangements with Japan, and in recent years , to be more willing to criticize China’s behavior.25 Although these differences generally remain, over the last decade t hese dynamics have shifted amid int ensified U.S.-China competition and an increasingly hostile North Korea, narrowing the policy gap between both parties. More recently, the left -of-center Minjoo Party has more cautiously supported engagement with North Korea, 17 The First Island Chain generally refers to islands running from Japan, Taiwan, parts of the Philippines, and Malaysia. The White House, “National Security Strategy of the United States of A merica,” November 2025. 18 U.S. Department of War, 2026 National Defense Strategy, January 23, 2026. 19 See, generally, Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 42 U.S.C. §§2011 , et seq . (P.L. 83 -703), and CRS In Focus IF11999, AUKUS