for performing MRO work on U.S. military ships or using foreign shipyards to build new ships for the Navy could be detrimental to U.S. shipbuilding capacity and expose the United States to foreign supply chains that could be vulnerable in wartime.165 Congress may choose to amend (or even repeal) 10 U.S.C. §8679 and 14 U.S.C. §1151 in a number of ways. For example, S. 406 (Ensuring Naval Readiness Act) and S. 407 (Ensuring Coast Guard Readiness Act ) would allow the President to issue waivers if the foreign shipyard is “ located in a North Atlantic Treaty Organization member country or a country in the Indo -Pacific region that is party to a mu tual defense treaty with the United States .” Both bills would further require the Secretary of the Navy and Commandant of the Coast Guard, respectively, to certify to Congress that the foreign shipyard is not “ owned or operated by a Chinese company or a multinational company domiciled in the People’s Republic of China. ” In addition, Congress may request briefings from U.S. national security officials on the potential merits and risks of constructing U.S. Navy and Coast Guard vessels in foreign shipyards . U.S.-ROK Alignment on North Korea Since the breakdown of nuclear diplomacy between President Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong -un in Hanoi in 2019, the United States and North Korea have had little substantive contact (Figure 7). During that time, North Korea has advanced key aspects of its military forces, including its strategic weapons.166 President Trump has expressed interest in meeting with Kim “in the appropriate future.”167 Some observers say South Korea fears it could be exclude d from such talks .168 South Korean President Lee Jae Myung has said he will “keep channels of communication with North Korea open and pursue peace on the Korean Peninsula through dialogue an d cooperation.”169 The second Trump Administration and Lee administration appear to diverge over whether to modify U.S. -ROK combined military exercises to create space for dialogue with North Korea. U.S. officials have cited the importance of bilateral 165 See, for example, Matthew Paxton , “Outsourcing the US Shipyard Industrial Base Will Outsource American Sovereignty ,” Breaking Defense , August 5, 2024. 166 Office of t he Director of National Intelligence , “Annual Threat Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community,” March 2025. 167 “Trump Says He Wants to Meet North Korea ’s Kim Jong Un During South Korean President ’s Visit,” CNA, August 25, 2025, https://www.youtube.com/ watch? v=8DqshoJD3rc . 168 Julian Ryall, “ South Korea Fears Being Sidelined by Trump -Kim Revival ,” DW, February 3, 2025. 169 “Full Text : President Lee Jae -myung’s June 4 Inaugural Address ,” Korea Pro, June 4, 2025. Figure 7. President Trump and Kim Jong - Un at Hanoi Summit February 2019 Source: Trump White House Archived on Flickr . U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 30 exercises for maintaining military readiness, while some ROK officials have suggested that scaling