-commercial -guides/ south -korea -defense -industry -equipment . 50 Anna J. Park, “ Lee Vows ‘ Bold Investments’ to Elevate Korea to Top-Tier Defense Power ,” The Korea Times , October 20, 2025. 51 State Department, “ U.S. Security Cooperation with the Republic of Korea (ROK) ,” January 20, 2025 . 52 The White House, “Joint Fact Sheet on President Donald J. Trump’s Meeting with President Lee Jae Myung,” November 13, 2025. 53 Larry Niksch , “Potential Sources of Opposition to a U.S. Troop Withdrawal from South Korea,” National Committee on North Korea (NCNK), April 2019, https://www.ncnk.org/ sites/ default/ files/ issue -briefs/ Opposition_US_Troop_Withdrawal_South_Korea.pdf ; Dr. Tim Kane, “U.S. Troop Deployments, 1950 -2023,” American Lyceum, November 2024, https://www.ustroopdeployments.com/ ; U.S. Department of State, “ U.S. Security Cooperation with the Republic of Korea (ROK) ,” fact sheet, January 20, 2025. U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 11 The issue of U.S. troop levels in South Korea continues to be a subject of debate amid changing political , security , and other dynamics , and it has become particularly relevant under President Trump. In his first term, President Trump reportedly planned to propose withdrawing all U.S. troops from South Korea, but advisors convinced him not to do so.54 In the spring of 2025 during Trump’s second term , the Trump Administration reportedly was considering relocating some 4,500 U.S. troops from South Korea to Gu am and other locations in the Indo -Pacific region.55 The Pentagon denied the report . Some experts say th is idea stems from the Trump Administration’s aim to reorient U.S. forces in the Indo -Pacific to focus on a potential conflict with China.56 During a U .S.-ROK summit in Washington with President Lee on August 25, 2025, President Trump floated the idea of the United States taking ownership of land in South Korea where there are U.S. military facilities. While it has raised legal questions among some experts, it also may suggest that the Trump Administration intends to maintain a U.S. troop presence in South Korea.57 In November 2025, U.S. Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth and his ROK counterpart “reaffirmed that U .S. Forces Korea (USFK) will maintain force and posture levels to support Alliance efforts to prevent armed conflict on the Korean Peninsula and promote peace and stability in Northeast Asia.”58 Some experts have argued that the U.S. troop presence in Sou th Korea is an integral part of the U.S. mutual defense commitment59 and reducing the U.S. presence on the Korean Peninsula could raise questions among North and South Koreans about the credibility of that commitment.60 Concerns about the U.S. commitment t o South Korean security particularly might resonate if U.S. troops reductions come at a time when the Trump Administration’s Department of Defense , which is “using a secondary Department of War designation,” under Executive Order 14347 dated September 5, 2 025, has already said it is prioritizing “reorienting toward deterring aggression by Communist China.”61 Other analysts contend that South Korea