where specific statutory authority exists for recipients or other responsible entities to assume environmental responsibilities, see 24 C.F.R. §58.1(b). 31 24 C.F.R. §50.2(a) defines “Project” for the purposes of Part 50 as “an activity, or a group of integrally -related activities, undertaken directly by HUD or proposed for HUD assistance or insurance.” 32 For more information about Part 50 and Part 58 projects, see “Orientation to Environmental Review” on HUD’s website : https://www.hudexchange.info/ programs/ environmental -review/ orientation -to-environmental -reviews/ #part - 50-and-part-58 (accessed September 17, 2025) . 33 HUD has interpreted “other provisions of law that further the purposes of NEPA” as those specified in 24 C.F.R. §58.5. Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 7 C.F.R. Part 58. This section would give the HUD Secretary flexibility to redesignate certain Part 50 projects as Part 58 projects, thereby allowing responsible entities (rather than HUD) to assume responsibility for environmental review of those pro jects. CRS is unable to determine exactly what activities would be covered by “assistance administered by the Secretary.” This section also would codify that Indian tribes may be responsible entities for the purposes of assuming environmental review obliga tions. Under current regulation, HUD permits Indian tribes, Alaska Native Villages, the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands, and Regional Corporations in Alaska to be responsible entities.34 The provisions concerning the reclassification of housing activitie s to modify environmental review requirements are substantially similar to the Unlocking Housing Supply Through Streamlined and Modernized Reviews Act ( H.R. 4660 /S. 2390 ). The provisions concerning special projects and Indian tribes are substantially similar to the Better Use of Intergovernmental and Local Development for Housing Act ( H.R. 4810 /S. 2391 ). In addition, t his section is substantially similar to provisions in the ROAD to Housing Act . Section 105. Federal H ousing Agency Application of Environmental Reviews HUD and the U.S. Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) administer a number of housing programs that have similar structures and are sometimes used in conjunction with one another. This section would require the two agencies to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to review and potentially revise the environmental review process and requirements across the two agencies and to explore the feasibility of joint physical inspections for properties assisted by both agencies.35 The provision s of this section are similar to the Streamlining Rural Housing Ac t of 2025 ( H.R. 4989 /S. 2423 ). These provisions are also nearly identical to provisions in the ROAD to Housi ng Act, with only a few changes. One change is that the Housing for the 21st Century Act incorporates the provisions of the Rural Housing Regulatory Relief Act ( H.R. 6327 ) to exempt USDA rural housing projects that meet the definition of “infill housing” from any study or report on the environmental effects of such assistance . The ROAD to Housing Act contains no such provision. Section 106. Multifamily Loan Limits FHA administers a number of programs to insure mortgages