(continued...) Separation of Powers and NATO Withdrawal Congressional Research Service 2 branch’s response to this questio n; in Section 1250A , Congress provided a different response in the context of a specific treaty —the North Atlantic Treaty . If a President were to withdraw from the North Atlantic Treaty without congressional approval as required by Section 1250A , and a challenge were brought that a court agreed to hear, the executive branch might argue , consistent with the 2020 OLC opinion, that Section 1250A interferes with the President’s exclusive authority to withdraw from treaties and is thus unconstitutional.11 This report examines the issues that U.S. courts could potentially address if a President were to assert the authority to withdraw unilaterally from the North Atlantic Treaty notwithstanding Section 1250 A. It begins by providing the background and legal fr amework governing the process for treaty withdrawal at the international and U.S. domestic levels. Next, this report examines historical practices related to treaty withdrawal, which began as a cooperative, interbranch process, but has evolved into sometim es conflicting legislative and executive branch position s. This report then analyzes how a court might determine whether it could hear a challenge to a n alleged violation of Section 1250A by applying the political question or standing doctrines . This repor t next analyzes how courts might approach the question of whether Section 1250A violates constitutional separation of powers principles if they were to agree to hear a challenge to a President’s unilateral withdrawal from the North Atlantic Treaty . Finally, this report proffers some considerations for Congress as it continues to exercise its legislative and oversight authorities related to treaties . Background and Legal Framework Treaties operate under separate international and domestic legal framew orks, and these frameworks create distinct sets of rules governing how countries enter into, perform, and withdraw from treaties.12 Generally, under international law, a nation’s head of state has authority to withdraw from a treaty, provided the treaty pe rmits withdrawal and the specified withdrawal process is followed .13 Article 13 of the North Atlantic Treaty permits parties to withdraw one year after providing a “notice of denunciation.”14 Under U.S. domestic law, the legal rules governing treaty withdr awal are less straightforward and have been the subject of changing practices and interpretation, as discussed in the following sections. further infra “Political Question Doctrine .” See also Cong. Rsch. Serv., Overview of the Political Question Doctrine , Constitution Annotated , https://constitution.congress.gov/browse/essay/artIII -S2-C1-9-1/ALDE_00001283/ (last visited Feb. 9 , 202 6). 11 See infra “The Executive Branch’s 2020 Claim to Exclusive Treaty Withdrawal Power .” 12 Compare , e.g., Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, arts. 7 –17, May 23, 196 9, 1155 U.N.T.S. 33 (defining the rules under interna tional law in which all countries, regardless of their domestic legal system, may consent to be bound by a treaty), with U.S. CONST . art. II, § 2, cl. 2 ( defining a specific procedure in U.S. domestic law in which the