is an unlimited resource, preferences for certain bands can lead to congestion or interference in those bands, which can limit access. With technological advancement, some technologies have been engineered to be more spectrally efficient, which can f ree spectrum for new uses. Since most of the radio spectrum is in use, finding spectrum for new uses is challenging. Regulators may open bands for sharing , designate a segment of a band for a new use , or relocate incumbent users to make spectrum available for new uses. Spectrum Management in the United States Spectrum —the radio waves that enable wireless communications —is a public resource. In the United States, spectrum access and use are managed by two agencies: the National Telecommunications and Inform ation Administration ( NTIA ), an agency in the D epartment of Commerce that manages federal use, and the Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ), which manages nonfederal (e.g., commercial) spectrum use. Together, the agencies coordinate to manage spectrum u se in the United States. NTIA can assign specific frequencies to federal agencies. The FCC may assign frequencies to nonfederal entities (e.g., state and local police, satellite operators) through an administrative process or, when two or more mutually ex clusive applicants seek an initial spectrum license (i.e., request to use the same frequencies), must grant the license through competitive bidding (i.e., auction).181 Auctions enable entities to bid on licenses, which grant them rights to use specific frequencies in certain geographic areas. After auctions, the FCC awards licenses to the highest bidders. The FCC may place conditions on licenses, such as requirements to operate within specified technical parameters prescribed by the FCC to avoid interference with other users, and obligations to offer wireless services in a set timeframe. 181 47 U.S.C. §309(j ). Spectrum Provisions in P.L. 119 -21, the FY 2025 Reconciliation Law Congressional Research Service 35 Appendix B. Spectrum Previously Allocated to Commercial Licensed Use Over the last 25 years, the U.S. government has allocated spectrum to support commercial wireless use —for both l icensed and unlicensed use. In its 2023 Annual Report on the Status of Spectrum Repurposing and Other Initiatives , NTIA said that over 15,214 megahertz of spectrum have been made available for commercial wireless use, including • 250 megahertz of low -band s pectrum, consisting of 210 megahertz for licensed use and 40 megahertz for unlicensed use; • 3,014 megahertz of mid -band spectrum, consisting of 1,150.5 megahertz for licensed use and 1,863.5 megahertz for unlicensed use; and • 11,950 megahertz of high -band s pectrum, consisting of 4,950 megahertz for licensed use and 7,000 megahertz for unlicensed use. Per the National Telecommunications and Information Administration ( NTIA ), an additional 7,235 megahertz is under study as of March 2023; most of that (6,750 megahertz) is high -band spectrum, as it is relatively unencumbered and offers some characteristics (e.g., high data capacity) that are useful to commercial wireless service providers .182 The FCC identifies the followi ng bands allocated for licensed mobile