-leaving -nato (quoting Sen . Rubio as stating that the amendment “ensure [s] that current and future U.S. Presidents cannot leave NATO without rigorous debate and consideration by the U.S. Congress with the input of the American people ”); Final Package Includes McClellan Amendments (Dec. 14, 2023), https://mcclellan.house.gov/media/press -releases/mcclellan -helps -pass-ndaa - fully -fund-military (describing provision as an endeavor to “prevent any U.S. President from unilaterally withdrawing from NATO without congressional approval”). 82 22 U.S.C. § 1928f(a). 83 Id. § 1928f(b). 84 Id. § 1928f(c). 85 See supra note 77 and accompanying text. Although in a statement issued in conjunction with signing the 2024 NDAA, President Biden noted constitutional objections to a number of sections in the statute, such a s restrictions on the transfer of Guantánamo Bay detainees and requirements to submit reports that could reveal classified information, he did not mention Section 1250A . See Presidential Statement on Signing the NDAA for Fiscal Year 2024, 2023 DAILY COMP. PRES. DOC. 1145 (Dec. 22, 2023) . 86 See supra notes 26–29 and accompany ing text . 87 See supra notes 30–35 and accompanying text . 88 See supra notes 36–49 and accompanying text . Separation of Powers and NATO Withdrawal Congressional Research Service 12 Claim of Presidential Exclusivity (2020) . In an OLC opinion, the executive branch claimed exclusive constitutional authority to withdraw from treaties and asserted that Congress cannot limit or condition this power in legislation.89 Congressional Rejection of Presidential Exclusivity (2023) . In Section 1250A of the 2024 NDAA, Congress provided that the President cannot withdraw from the North Atlantic Treaty without congressional or Senatorial con sent.90 Justiciability Issues in Enforcing Section 1250A Before addressing the constitutional analysis that a court would likely apply in a case involving a challenge to a President’s withdrawal from the North Atlantic Treaty , there is the initial question of whether a court would intervene in the first place or instead deem the issue improper for judicial resolution based on one or more justiciability doctrines. Many cases involving issues of foreign affairs face significant justiciability hurdles that often have led courts to decline to weigh in on the merits. Two of the princip al justiciability doctrines that have resulted in dismissal of cases involving foreign affairs , including challenges to a President’s unilateral withdrawal from treatie s, are the political question and standing doctrines .91 Both doctrines are based on the separation of powers between federal courts and the political branches; the Supreme Court has developed the law governing each based on its interpretation of the scope of judicial power granted in Article III of the Constitution.92 If a President sought to withdraw from the North Atlantic Treaty, but did not obtain approval through the advice and consent of the Senate or an act of Congress, it is possible that the executive branch would invoke the political question and standing doctrines as bases to dismis s any lawsuits seeking to enforce Section 1250A. Political Question Doctrine The Supreme Court developed the