ed the importance of the General Security of Military Information Agre ement (GSOMIA) between South Korea and Japan; (2) encourage d South Korea and Japan to rebuild trust and pursue cooperation on mutual interests; and (3) expresse d support for strengthened alliances between the United States, South Korea, and Japan. (The GSO MIA is an agreement that allows Japan and South Korea to directly share military intelligence with one another.) S.Res. 435 was introduced in the Senate on 11/20/2019 and agreed to in the Senate on 11/21/2019. H.Res. 152 (Khanna), Calling for a formal end of the Korean war. This resolution would have “call [ed] for the conclusion of a binding peace agreement constituting a formal and final end to the state of war between North Korea, South Korea, and the United States.” A t the same time, it would have affirm ed that such a binding peace agreement would not have any legal effect on the U.S.-ROK mutual defense treaty, which would “remain in force indefinitely.” H.Res. 152 was introduced in the House on 2/26/2019 and referred to the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. H.Res. 439 (Steube), Maintaining North Korea’s seizure of the vessel USS Pueblo and its detention of the crew were in violation of international law and seeking the return of the USS Pueblo to the United States. This resolution would have maintain ed that the January 23, 1968, seizure by North Korea of the USS Pueblo and the detention of its crew violate d international law, and sought the return of the USS Pueblo to the United States. H.Res. 439 was introduced in the House on 6/12/2019 and referred to the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 36 Appendix C. U.S.-ROK Mutual Defense Treaty T ext of the Mutual Defense Treaty Between t he United States and the Republic of Korea , October 1, 1953 The Parties to this Treaty, Reaffirming their desire to live in peace with all peoples and a ll governments, and desiring to strengthen the fabric of peace in the Pacific area, Desiring to declare publicly and formally their common determination to defend themselves against external armed attack so that no potential aggressor could be under the illusion that either of them stands alone in the Pacific area, Desiring further to strengthen their effort s for collective defense for the preservation of peace and security pending the development of a more comprehensive and effective system of regional security in the Pacific area, Have agreed as follows: ARTICLE I The Parties undertake to settle any international disputes in which they may be involved by peaceful means in such a manner that international peace and security and justice are not endangered and to refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force in any manner incon sistent with the Purposes of the United Nations, or obligations assumed by any Party toward the United Nations. ARTICLE II The Parties will consult together