in 2023 .38 From January to September 2025, Mexico received some 58,000 asylum applications, with most applicants originating in Cuba, Venezuela, and Haiti and presenting their claims in southern Mexico, a region that the United Nations’ refugee agency reports is lacking in shelter spaces and services.39 Congress may influence U.S. -Mexico migration cooperation through legislation, including appropriations, and oversight. P.L. 119 -21 (H.R. 1 ), the budget reconciliation law enacted in July 2025 and commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act , include d a significant increase in funds for immigration enforcement but no funds for migration -related services or support for the asylum system in Mexico. Congress could consider legislation to authorize , change, or prohibit the MPP and related policies. Congress also could consider expanding, restricting, or placing conditions or reporting requirements on any U.S. migration control or humanitarian assistance to Mexico and assess ing the effects of reducti ons of such assistance amid ongoing returns of third - country migrants to Mexico . 33 DHS, U.S. Customs and Bord er Protection, “Southwest Land Border Encounters ,” https://www.cbp.gov/ newsroom/ stats/ southwest -land-border -encounters . 34 Mexico agreed to receive individuals from Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua , and Venezuela during the Biden Administration. Mexico continues to accept such migrants, including those who had the ir parole status in the United States revoked. 35 DHS, “DHS Reinstates Migrant Protection Protocols Allowing Officials to Return Applicants to Neighboring Countries, ” January 21, 2025. 36 Daniel Gonzalez, “Under New Strategy, U.S. Flies Deportees to Southe rn Tip of Mexico,” Pulitzer Center , October 30, 2025. 37 Human Rights First, “Third Country Deportation Watch: Mexico,” January 21, 2026, https://www.thirdcountrydeportationwatch.org/ mexic o. 38 Government of Mexico, “ Mexico and Venezuela Strengthen Cooperation on Migration ,” Dec ember 30, 2023. 39 United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, “Mexico Fact Sheet,” September 2025, https://data.unhcr.org/ en/ documents/ details/ 119406 . Mexico: Background and Key Issues in U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 8 Trade and Tariffs U.S. trade with Mexico has expanded significantly since the entry into force of the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which was replaced by USMCA in July 2020 (see “USMCA Joint Review ,” below). USMCA provides that the majority of trade between the United States, Canada, and Mexi co is duty -free, as NAFTA provided. In 2025, Mexico was the United States’ largest single trading partner in goods, with total bilateral trade (imports plus exports) amounting to $840.0 billion. Following Mexico were Canada ($761.8 billion) and China ($582 .0 billion).40 Top goods imports from Mexico were autos and auto parts, machinery and appliances, and electronics and parts. Top U.S. goods exports to Mexico were electronics and parts, machinery and appliances, oil, and autos and auto parts.41 Much of U.S .-Mexico goods trade occurs in the context of production sharing, particularly in the automotive industry, resulting in high two -way trade in some industries. Total services trade (imports plus exports) between Mexico and the United States was $96 billion in 2024