provide a report to Congress on the current capacity and capability of the U.S. Missio n in Australia . Further a reas of interest for Congress may include the following . AUKUS153 State Department officials during the Biden Administration testified to the centrality of legislative proposals to AUKUS’ strategic advancement and the executive branch’s consultation s with Congress .154 Congressional interest in AUKUS has remained consistent through the second Trump Administration with AUKUS -related legislation being considered . Moving forward, Members in their oversight capacity may seek to gain further understanding of challe nges and opportunities related to AUKUS. For example, Congress may examine the logistical feasibility of Pillar I given the U.S. backlog in the building and maintenance of Virginia -class nuclear -powered attack submarines . Such oversight may prompt a re-evaluation of SSN procurement rates and the usage of submarine industrial base funding appropriated by Congress . Members may also be interested in possible alterations to the current development of AUKUS, such as re-structur ing divisions of labor amongst the three countries in which U.S. SSNs perform U.S. and Australian SSN missions while Australia invests in military capabilities to perform non -SSN missions for the two allies .155 Members interested in the financing of AUKUS may request information from the executive branch to understand how U.S. and Australia’s investment s in the U.S. submarine industrial base ha ve supported implementation progress and to ensure compliance with congressional reporting requirements . Defense Cooperation in the Indo -Pacific Mem bers of Congress may seek to clarify Australia’s commitment to supporting the United States in a potential conflict in the Indo -Pacific. Although Australia has contributed armed forces alongside the United States in every conflict in which the U.S. has par ticipated, under the ANZUS Treaty, neither the United States nor Australia are required to support the other militarily in an 153 For more in -depth information on congressional considerations regarding AUKU S, see CRS Report RL32418, Navy Virginia -Class Submarine Program and AUKUS Submarine (Pillar 1) Project: Background and Issues for Congress , by Ronald O'Rourke ; and CRS Report R47599, AUKUS Pillar 2 (Advanced Capabilities): Background and Issues for Congress , by Luke A. Nicastro . This section has drawn from these reports. For follow up, congressional staff may contact Jared Tupuola. 154 For more in -depth i nformation on congressional considerations regarding AUKUS, see CRS Report RL32418, Navy Virginia -Class Submarine Program and AUKUS Submarine (Pillar 1) Project: Background and Issues for Congress , by Rona ld O'Rourke ; U.S. Congress, Senate Foreign Relations Committee, AUKUS: A Generational Opportunity, 118th Cong., 1st sess., September 6, 2023, p. 5. For follow up, congressional staff may contact Jared Tupuola. 155 For more in -depth information on congressi onal considerations regarding AUKUS, see CRS Report RL32418, Navy Virginia -Class Submarine Program and AUKUS Submarine (Pillar 1) Project: Background and Issues for Congress , by Ronald O'Rourke . For follow up, congressional staff may contact Jared Tupuola. U.S.-Australia Relations: Background and Issues