any plans they have to adopt and implement these policies in the future. The submissions “shall not be bindi ng with respect to the use or distribution” of CDBG grant dollars. The land use policies listed in this section include increasing density in residential zoning, streamlining or shortening permitting processes and timelines, limiting impact fees, establish ing density bonuses, providing property tax abatements, and donating vacant land. In addition, the section would require CDBG grantees to maintain, on a publicly accessible website, a searchable database that identifies all parcels of undeveloped land own ed by the grantee. Previous legislation has proposed making new housing construction an eligible CDBG activity, including the Strengthening Housing Supply Act of 2025 ( H.R. 5077 ). The land use policy reporting requirements in this section are similar to those in the Identifying Regulatory Barriers to Housing Supply Act ( H.R. 4659 ). There is no similar provisio n in the ROAD to Housing Act . 51 Under current statute, local governments and consortia that are eligible for a formula allocation of more than $500,000 but less than $750,000 are only able to become PJs if they contribute at least $750,000 in total to affordable housing activities, making up the difference with their own funds, resources from their state, or a share of their state’s formula allocation (see 42 U.S.C. §12746(3)(A)). This section would effectively nullify that provision by limiting allocations to (1) current PJs and (2) newly qua lifying local jurisdictions eligible for a formula allocation of no less than $750,000. The section would also eliminate the requirement that the minimum allocation be lowered to $335,000 for years in which Congress appropriates less than $1.5 billion to t he program. Currently eligible PJs shall remain PJs for subsequent fiscal years, except as provided by 42 U.S.C. §12746(9), the conditions of which would not be adjusted by this section. 52 For more information, see CRS Report R43520, Community Development Block Grants and Related Programs: A Primer , by Joseph V. Jaroscak . 53 For more information, see CRS Report R48073, HUD’s Consolidated Planning Process: An Overview , coordinated by Joseph V. Jaroscak . Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 12 Section 203. Grants for Planning and Implementation Associated with Affordable Housing One federal approach to affecting zoning and land use policy h as been to fund state and local planning activities . This section would estab lish a new competitive grant pilot program to assist planning and implementation activities associated with affordable housing. Eligible grantees would be states, insular areas, CDBG entitlement communities, and regional planning agencies. Eligible activities would include planning, land use policy reforms, housing construction, and natural hazard mitigation projects for government buildings. The section does not authorize funding for these purposes , and would sunset five years after enactment .54 The grant program proposed by this section would be comparable to the Pathways to Removing Obstacles to Housing (PRO Housing) competition. The PRO Housing competitio n awarded competitive grants