Obrador’s Transformation of Mexican Democracy,” Current History , February 2025; Aldo F. Ponce, “The Weakening of the Mexican Party System: The Rise of AM LO’s MORENA,” in Political Parties and the Crisis of Democracy: Organization, Resilience, and Reform , eds. Thomas Poguntke and Wilhelm Hofmeister (Oxford University Press, 2024). 2 International Monetary Fund (IMF), Mexico: 2025 Article IV Consultation -Press Release; Staff Report; and Statement by the Executive Director for Mexico , October 27, 2025 ; BBVA Research, “ Mexico: 11 Consecutive Years of Remittances Growth End, Falling 4.6% ,” February 3, 2026. 3 Emiliano Rodríguez Mega and Simon Romero, “In Mexico, Thousands Ran for Office, Few Voted and One Party Dominated It All,” New York Times , June 15, 2025. 4 Chase Harrison, “Approval Tracker: Mexico ’s President Claudia Sheinbaum,” Americas Society/Council o f the Americas, January 9, 2026. 5 Alexandra Helfgott, “What Are Sheinbaum’s Electoral Reforms? “Plan D” Electoral Reforms Explained ,” Moments in Mexico , August 6, 2025. O Mexico: Background and Key Issues in U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 2 Figure 1. Mexico at a Glance: Map and Fast Facts Sources: Created by CRS using data from Mexico’s National Institute of Statistics and Geography (INEGI), International Monetary Fund (IMF), UN Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (CEPAL), Trade Data Mo nitor (TDM) , and Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) . The Sheinbaum administration arguably has abandoned what some observers regarded as López Obrador’s passive approach to drug cartels. Mexico’s public security strategy under Shei nbaum focuses on addressing the root causes of crime and violence, increasing intelligence gathering and investigations, consolidating the Mexican National Guard under the defense ministry, and Mexico: Background and Key Issues in U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 3 strengthening federal interventions in high -crime states.6 From October 2024 to December 2025, Mexic an authorities detained 40,000 individuals accused of serious crimes, recorded a 40% reduction in homicides, and seized 320 tons of illicit drugs in Mexico.7 Some observers point out that surging violence in some sta tes, ongoing disappearances —some perpetrated by collusion between crime groups and state authorities —and corruption, collusion, and impunity still need to be addressed.8 Mexico’s economy grew an estimated 1% in 2025 and is forecast to grow 1.5% in 2026 .9 Economic growth could be affected by U.S. tariff rate changes , changes in Mexico’s tariffs on other countries, the outcome of the U.S. -Mexico -Canada Agreement (USMCA) 2026 joint review, and the effects of constituti onal reforms on Mexico’s investment climate. In January 2025, the Sheinbaum administration launched Plan Mexico, an industrial policy plan aimed at attracting $277 billion in domestic and foreign direct investment, including private investment in renewable energies.10 The State Department’s 2025 Investment Climate Statement reports that some U.S. investors have raised concerns about reforms that replaced autonomous regulators with entities in executive agencies that could be politicized, energy reforms that favor state agencies over private investors, and the potential effects of directly elected judges aligned with political