A-1 depicts the radio spectrum —the range of radio waves that enable s various wireless communications (e.g., mobil e use, including cellular; AM/FM radio; satellite television; Wi -Fi; military radio communications on the ground, in the air, and at sea; military radar and detection for national security; air traffic control systems; and research). Figure A-1. Radio Spectrum Low-Band, Mid -Band, High -Band Segments and Characteristics Source: CRS. Notes: This graphic shows the radio spectrum, that is , those frequencies from 3 kilohertz (kHz) to 300 gigahertz (GHz), and their characteristics. It shows low -band (below 1 GHz), mid -band (1 -6 GHz), and high -band (above 6 GHz), and their characteristics. Kilohertz is a measure of a wave oscillation rate equi valent to 1,000 waves passing through a one -second interval; gigahertz is a radio wave with an oscillation rate equivalent to 1 billion wave crests passing through a one -second interval. Megabits per second (Mbps) refers to the speed of data transfer over a network. At 20 -30 Mbps, users can typically stream videos, download large files, and support multiple connected devices in the home, for example. A speed of 100 Mbps could support more people streaming and browsing simultaneously, high -definition streami ng, online gaming, video conferencing, and file downloads. Speeds above 250 Mbps and into gigahertz speeds can support multiple users streaming high - definition video, simultaneous online gaming, ultrafast downloads, reliable video calls. Different technolo gies rely on different radio frequency bands to transmit voice and data. Transmitters are built to transmit on certain frequencies or across a range of frequencies. The selection of frequencies is not random. Service providers and manufacturers pair techno logies with certain frequencies to develop new uses. Service providers must obtain permission from government regulators to transmit on those frequencies. Regulators ensure that the assignment of frequencies for a new user or use does not interfere with ot hers operating in the same band in the same area. Equipment is typically built to operate within a range of frequencies; changing an entity’s frequency assignments may affect its ability to transmit and receive communications or may change aspects of its t ransmissions (e.g., coverage and capacity). As new technologies emerge and require access to spectrum to operate, regulators will need to examine incumbent use, opportunities for sharing frequencies in the band, potential for interference, costs and benefi ts of reallocating spectrum (e.g., changing use of the band) and relocating incumbent users, and other methods to maximize spectrum use. In some cases, regulators will need to press for improvements to technologies to improve spectrum efficiency. Spectrum Provisions in P.L. 119 -21, the FY 2025 Reconciliation Law Congressional Research Service 34 While spe ctrum is an unlimited resource, preferences for certain bands can lead to congestion or interference in those bands, which can limit access. With technological advancement, some technologies have been engineered to be more spectrally efficient, which can f ree spectrum for new uses. Since most of the radio spectrum is in