Under the current Lee administration, U.S. -ROK joint statements have reference d “the importance of maintaining peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.” At the same time, following his November 2025 summit with PRC President Xi Jinping, Lee said the two countries were “on a path of mutual prosperity as strategic cooperative partners.”96 Congres s, “Strategic Flexibility ,” and Taiwan Whether South Korea would allow U.S. forces based on its territory to conduct offensive operations against China in a Taiwan contingency is a highly sensitive and unsettled issue . The U.S.-ROK Mutual Defense Treaty grants to the United States “the right to dispose United States land, air and sea forces in and about the territory of the Republic of Korea as determined by mutual agreement.” The Department of Defense ( DOD )’s ability to use these locations may be affected by political developments beyond U.S. control. South Korea might oppose the use of U.S. forces on the Korea Peninsula for a variety of reasons, including a South Korean reluctance to provoke China, or a preference to keep all U.S. forces in South Korea focused on the threat of North Korea, or a political leadership that feels a reluctance to support a U.S. -China contingency operation. Congress may consider these uncertainties when making decisions about funding the U.S. force posture in South Kore a, or when considering legislation that would affect the size and scope of the U.S. force posture in South Korea. Congress also may consider whether or not DOD 89 Charlie Campbell, “ Exclusive: Lee Jae -myung Aims to Steer South Korea Past Its Moment of Crisis and Mounting Challenges ,” Time Magazine , May 29, 2025. 90 John Lee, “ Nuclear Submarines Force Issue of How Far Seoul Publicly Alig ns with US Goals,” Korea Pro , November 21, 2025. 91 United Nations Comtrade Database, 2024. 92 William Gallo, “ Caught in US -China Rivalry, South Korea Inches Toward Washington ,” Voice of America, June 5, 2023. 93 Russell Hsaio, “ Taiwan and South Korea Enhancing Their Engagement as Chinese Aggression Intensifies ,” Global Taiwan Institute, September 20, 2023. 94 The White House, “U.S. -ROK Leaders’ Joint Statement,” May 21, 2021; “United States -Republic of Korea Leaders’ Joint Statement,” May 21, 2022; “ Leaders’ Joint Statement in Commemoration of the 70th Anniversary of the Alliance Between the United States of America and the Republic of Korea ,” April 26, 2023. 95 “South Korea ’s Yoon Opens Door for Possible Military Aid to Ukraine,” Reuters , April 19, 2023 . 96 Yoo Jee -ho, “Lee Says Summit with China ’s Xi Put Bilateral Ties Back on Track ,” Yonhap News Agency, November 2, 2025. U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 18 adequately accounts for this kind of political risk in its strategic and operational planning. I f Congress identifies concerns with DOD’s approach, Congress could direct DOD to develop new plans, strategies, or reports to address these risks. Cost Sharing Since 1991, South Korea