can move deposits in response to market prices, the deposits sourced from brokers are inherently more mobile relative to traditional deposits accounts in which customers are likely to have selected direc t payroll deposit and bill payment services. Further, because the primary purpose of brokered deposits is to seek yield, banks that struggle to borrow short -term funds may offer higher rates to incentivize and attract brokered deposits, increasing their so lvency risk and the risk that taxpayers’ dollars will be used to reimburse depositors if they fail. Regulators generally want banks to hold stable, less mobile deposits to protect the financial safety net, thus limiting the conditions upon which a bank may accept brokered deposits. Similar to brokered deposit accounts, custodial deposit accounts are also type of deposit account that is typically opened on behalf of other customers. Although banks may hold and pay interest on custodial deposits to retain re lationships with high -net-worth clients, these funds are not used to finance lending activities and are, therefore, much less mobile and more stable relative to brokered deposits. This section would exempt custodial deposits from being considered a brokere d deposit for certain well -capitalized insured depository institutions, provided they meet the following conditions: • the bank is “well-capitalized ”77 and received a composite supervisory rating of 3 or better,78 or it has obtained a waiver; • custodial depos its do not exceed 20 % of a bank’s total liabilities; and • the bank has less than $10 billion in assets . Further, the section restricts an institution that is not well capitalized from offering interest rates on custodial deposits that “significantly” exceed designated market rates. This section is substantially similar to the Community Bank Deposit Access Act ( H.R. 5317 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. Section 602. Keeping Deposits Local Reciprocal deposits are deposit funds exchanged by banks, in contrast to brokered deposits that are obtained via third -party brokers. In both cases, a goal is to keep the total amount in an individual account from exceed ing the federal deposit insurance limit. Reciprocal deposits allow customers to maximize deposit insurance coverage by spreading a deposit amount that exceeds the $250,000 limit across a network of institutions so that the full amount can receive coverage. This section would increase the amount of reciprocal deposits that are exempted from the restrictions on brokered deposits. It creates tiers of deposits that would be exempt from the brokered deposit restrictions: (A) An amount equal to 50 percent of the portion of the total liabilities of the agent institution that is less than or equal to $1,000,000,000. (B) An amount equal to 40 percent of the portion, if any, of the total liabilities of the agent institution that is greater than $1,000,000,000, but le ss than or equal to $10,000,000,000. 76 Currently, an individual checking account may be covered up to $250,000. For this reason, individuals with deposits that exceed $250,000 may place funds in