Z-pinch configuration for its fusion device, describes the technology as follows: As every physics student learns, electric currents also create magnetic fields. Point your right thumb in the direction of a current [i.e., a straight line] and curl your fingers inward, and they will reveal the direction of the associated magne tic field (the “right hand rule ” 15 Robert J. Goldston, “An Overview of the Fusion Landscape,” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists , vol. 80, no. 6 (2024). 16 University of Maryland Stellarator Group, “Stellarators ,” https://terpconnect.umd.edu/ ~mattland/ projects/ 1_stellarators/ . 17 Robert J. Goldston, “An Overview of the Fusion Landscape,” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists , vol. 80, no. 6 (2024). Toward Commercial Fusion Energy: Considerations for Congress Congressional Research Service 6 [see Figure 4]). A pinch happens when charged particles flow across those magnetic fields, for example when you run a c urrent through a bundle of electric wires. Squeezed by these magnetic fields, the wires constrict like [a] crumpled lightning rod. The same thing happens if you run a current through a column of plasma, a state of matter packed with charged particles. This special kind of pinch is called a Z pinch, and the stronger the electric current, the more powerful its pinch becomes. With a powerful enough pinch, the plasma will get so hot and dense that the elements in the plasma fuse into entirely new elements.18 Figure 4. Determining the Direction of Magnetic Fields with the Right -Hand Rule Source: Kawsar Ahmed, “Why Does the Right Hand Rule Work for Determining the Direction of Magnetic Field Around a Straight Current Carrying Wire?,” Physics Stack Exchange (blog) , 2017, https://physics.stackexchange.com/ q/343192 . Notes: “I” indicates the direction of the current; “B” indicates the direction of the magnetic field . Inertial Confinement In inertial confinement, pulsed sources of energy directed toward small fuel target s create rapid fusion reactions in short bursts , with each reaction completing before the plasma fuel has time to disperse. Lasers are the most develope d technology for this purpose. The lasers cause the fuel to compress when the capsule containing the target fuel burns off , or ablates .19 This approach is used, for example, in the National Ignition Facility (NIF) at the Department of Energy (DOE) Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.20 While the NIF is intended primarily for research to improve stewardship of the U.S. nuclear weapons stockpile (see “ DOE Weapons Programs Research Related to Fusion ”), it has also demonstrat ed fusion ignition several times, beginning in 18 Zap Energy, “How It Works ,” 2025, https://www.zapenergy.com/ how-it-works . 19 National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, Interim Report —Status of the Study “An Assessment of the Prospects for Inertial Fusion Energy” (National Academies Press , 2012) , p. 16 , https://www.nationalacademies.org/ read/ 13371/ chapter/ 1. 20 Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, “National Ignition Facility & Photon Science ,” 2025, https://lasers.llnl.gov/ . Toward Commercial Fusion Energy: Considerations for Congress Congressional Research Service 7 December 2022 .21 Although each ignition