the portion, if any, of the total liabilities of the agent institution that is greater than $1,000,000,000, but le ss than or equal to $10,000,000,000. 76 Currently, an individual checking account may be covered up to $250,000. For this reason, individuals with deposits that exceed $250,000 may place funds in multiple banks to increase federal insurance coverage. 77 The term “well-capitalized ” is generally d efined in 12 U.S.C. §1831o. 78 For more on the supervisory rating system, see CRS Report R46648, Bank Supervision by Federal Regulators: Overview and Policy Issues , by David W. Perkins . Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 21 (C) An amount equal to 30 percent of the portion, if any, of the total liabilities of the agent institution that is greater than $10,000,000,000, but less than or equal to $250,000,000,000. The provision would also chan ge who qualifies for this exemption to be based on the bank’s supervisory rating. The provision would require a study on reciprocal deposits from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and Federal Reserve, and a report to Congress on the report’s findings. This provision is substantially similar to the Keeping Deposits Local Act ( H.R. 3234 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. Section 603. Supervisory Modifications for Appropriate Risk -Based Testing Banks are routinely subject to examinations to assess their financial condition and compliance with banking law and regulations. Some examinations are full -scope assessments of the bank, and others are limi ted or targeted examinations of one aspect of a bank’s operations. This section would ease some of the examination requirements for banks and credit unions with $6 billion or less in assets that are “well-managed ” and “well-capitalized .”79 For example, th e section would allow an eligible bank to alternate between full -scope and limited scope exams. Further, the section would require the regulators, upon the covered bank’s request, to combine targeted examinations so they are carried out at the same time. T he section does not provide relief to banks that are currently subject to enforcement actions from the federal banking agencies or those institutions that have been acquired since their most recent full -scope examination. The section requires the regulator s to issue rules to define the limited -scope examination procedures as well as to establish a process to review institutions that have experienced changes in their financial conditions between exams or have failed to comply with banking law. The section would set forth standards for examination practices, and each federal banking agency would be required to include in its annual report to Congress an explanation of how it complied with the section. This section is substantially similar to the Supervisory Mo difications for Appropriate Risk -Based Testing (SMART) Act ( H.R. 4437 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. Section 604. Tailored Regulatory Updates for Supervisory Testing Banks are generally subject to full -scope examinations once every 12 -month