U.S.-South Korea Alliance : Background and Issues for Congress March 5, 2026 Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov R48877 Congressional Research Service SUMMARY U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress In the wake of the Korean War (1950 -53), the United States and South Korea (officially the Republic of Korea, or ROK) forged an alliance that remains one of the United States’ most significant military arrangements in Asia. Under the Mutual Defense Treaty that took effec t in 1954, the United States and South Korea committed to defend each other against armed attack. Today, a bout 28,500 U.S. troops are stationed in South Korea . The alliance has traditionally focused on perceived threats from North Korea (officially the Dem ocratic People’s Republic of Korea, or DPRK ), which have changed as North Korea has developed weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and missile capabilities . South Korea is included under the U.S. “nuclear umbrella,” also known as extended deterrence . Over the last few decades, the United States and South Korea have taken steps to reform the alliance. These steps unfolded as South Korea emerged as a wealthier country due to its rapid economic growth. For example, in 1991, bilateral negotiations led Sout h Korea to begin defraying the cost of hosting U.S. troops. Both sides also are preparing a change in operational control in the event of war , moving from the existing structure of U.S. and South Korean soldiers operating under a binational command led by a U.S. general, to a binational command led by an ROK general with a U.S. deputy. Since 2022, the allies have upgraded their consultations over the U.S. extended deterrence commitment, partly to respond to growing calls within South Korea for the acquisiti on of an independent nuclear weapons capability. South Korea also has helped bolster trilateral security cooperation with the United States and Japan, particularly since a trilateral summit at Camp David in 2023. The U.S. -ROK alliance may have reached an inflection point, some observers say , as the administrations of Donald Trump and Lee Jae Myung seek to further “ modernize ” the alliance . Amid rapidly changing threats by the People’s Republic of China, Russia, and North Korea, President s Trump and Lee appea r ready for South Korea to take a more active role in the alliance and to broaden the alliance’s mission . President Lee has stated an inten tion for South Korea to acquire nuclear submarines , which President Trump says he supports. South Korea potentially could employ such submarines to counter North Korea and possibly China, though the wisdom of deploying ROK military assets against China is debated among ROK policymakers and experts. In addition, in November 2025, U.S. Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth reporetedly stated that U.S. forces in South Korea could be used for a “regional contingency,” which may include a China -Taiwan conflict. Historically, Congress has supported the U.S. -ROK alliance on a broad, bipartisan basis. Through legislation, oversight, and other tools, Congress may