carrying on war. This power necessarily extends to all legislation essential to the prosecution of war with vigor and success , except such as interferes with the command of the forces and the conduct of ca mpaigns. That power and duty belong to the President as commander -in-chief . Ex parte Milligan , 71 U.S. (4 Wall.) 2 , 139 (1867 ) (Chase, C.J., concurring) (emphasis added). 276 Cf. Zivotofsky ex rel. Zivotofsky v. Kerry , 576 U.S. 1, 16 (2015) (“Although the President alone effects the formal act of recognition, Congress ’ powers, and its central role in making laws, give it substantial authority regarding many of the policy determinations that precede and follow the act of recognition itself. If C ongress disagrees with the President ’s recognition policy, there may be consequences. Formal recognition may seem a hollow act if it is not accompanied by the dispatch of an ambassador, the easing of trade restrictions, and the conclusion of treaties. And those decisions require action by the Senate or the whole Congress .”). Separation of Powers and NATO Withdrawal Congressional Research Service R48868 · VERSION 3 · NEW 35 Author Information Karen Sokol Legislative Attorney Acknowledgments Attorney -Adviser Steve P. Mulligan coauthored this report. Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.