INS v. Chadha, 462 U.S. 919, 954 (1983). 168 Cf., e.g., Zivotofsky v. Clinton, 566 U.S. 189, 196 (2012) (“The existence of a statutory right . . . is certainly relevant to the Judiciary’s power to decide [a plaintiff’s] claim.”); FEC v. Akins, 524 U.S. 11, 21 (1988) (concluding that plaintiffs suffered an injury in fact by being denied the ability to access information that a statute required to be made public); Warth v. Seldin, 422 U.S. 490, 500 (1975) (“The actual or threatened injury required by Art. III may exist solely by virtue of ‘statutes creating legal rights, the i nvasion of which creates standing . . . .’”) (quoting Linda R.S. v. Richard D., 410 U.S. 614, 617 n.3 (1973) ). For more expansive discussion of the relationship between statutory (continued...) Separation of Powers and NATO Withdrawal Congressional Research Service 22 uncertain the status of federal acquisition and export control authorities that simplify certain commercial transactions involving NATO countries.169 NATO withdrawal might also call into question the status and future availability of NATO v isas for NATO officials, staff, and immediate family members.170 In seeking to establish standing, litigants might contend that withdrawal from the North Atlantic Treaty undermined their statutory rights or expectations of rights under a particular NATO -related statute, which led to a concrete and particularized injury.171 The Supreme Court has recognized that “[t]he actual or threatened injury required [to establish standing] may exist sole ly by virtue of statutes creating legal rights, the invasion of which creates standing.”172 Constitutional Analysis of Section 1250A As discussed, the Supreme Court has never heard a treaty withdrawal case on its merits , and no court has addressed the constitutionality of a statute restricting the President’s ability to withdraw from a treaty . The analytical approaches that the Court has taken in s eparation of powers cases involving other issues may inform any case involving a statute that the executive branch claims impermissibly infringes on the President’s constitutional authority . The Supreme Court’s Youngstown Framework for Separation of Powers Cases The Supreme Court has developed approaches to decide separation of powers issues in other cases that courts might draw upon in assessing any potential challenge s to a President’s withdrawal from a treaty in alleged violation of a statutory prohibition such as that in Section 1250A. A court’s evaluation of such a challenge would likely begin with the framework that the Supreme Court has recognized as appropriate for determining the scope of presidential powers relative to those of Congress , including in cases involving foreign policy issues : Justice Robert Jackson’s concurrence in Young stown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer .173 Under the Youngstown framework, courts assess presidential claims of authority based on what Congress has —or has not—said about the matter. As Justice Jackson observed: “ Presidential powers are not fixed but fluctuate, d epending upon their disjunction or conjunction with those of Congress.”174 Justice Jackson accordingly formulated a tripartite framework for analyzing the scope of