The U.S. Automotive Industry: Selected Issues March 5, 2026 Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov R48876 Congressional Research Service SUMMARY The U.S. Automotive Industry: Selected Issues According to industry estimates, the U.S. automotive manufacturing industry accounts for 4.8% of gross domestic product and employs 10.1 million people through direct and indirect jobs. The federal government has supported this industry through various policies , with C ongress passing laws on industry issues such as trade and financial assistance , vehicle powertrain development , vehicle safety, domestic labor, and vehicle costs. There are a variety of policy issues and considerations for Congress related to the industry. Domestic market dynamics. From 1970 to 2024 , the automotive industry underwent several changes as automotive manufacturers and suppliers from foreign countries enter ed the domestic marke t, new entrants with specialized product off erings emerg ed, and some traditional U.S. automotive manufacturers and suppliers chang ed ownership. Additionally, automotive manufacturers and suppliers both rely on international markets for sourcing and selling products , which has cultivated a dynamic environment. Both Congress and the executive branch have created policies —such as trade agreements, financial assistance programs, tariffs, and incentives for manufacturers —to support the viability of the automotive industry and, at points , foster integrated supply chains . Electrification . Electrified vehicles —including electric, hybrid, and fuel cell vehicles —differ from vehicles with internal combustion engines. The automotive industry has developed and introduced electrified powertrains in vehic les, with plug-in hybrid vehicles first becoming commercially available in 2010 . The development of vehicles with electrified powertrain s was spurred by a variety of factors, including consumer demand, technological advances , environmental concerns , and federal incentives and regulations . Though d omestic demand and production of this type of vehicle slowed in 2025, electrified powertrain development continues to chang e product planning in the industry . These changes may affect investments, labor, and vehicle prices. The federal government has introduced policies to influence powertrain development by offering various incentives and , recently, by repealing programs that the Trump Administration and some Members of Cong ress consider burdensome on the industry and consumers . Vehicle safety. Vehicle safety remains a focus of Congress and federal regulators , as automotive vehicle -related fatalities are a leading cause of death. A utomotive manufacturers have developed and i ncorporated safety technologies (e.g., seat belts, airbags, and advanced driver assistance systems) to promote vehicle safety. The federal government has standardized some of these safety technologie s through regulations . Additionally , vehicle size has influenced vehicle safety , as some research indicates that heavier vehicles may improve passenger safety within that vehicle but increase traffic -related fatalities of passengers in other vehicles, pedestrians, and bicyclists . Federal laws and regulations may influence automotive manufacturers’ decisions to produce heavier vehicles. Domestic labor in the automotive industry. The automotive industry is a major employer in the United States, accounting for a sizeable proportion of the domestic manufacturing sector . Recent changes in the industry ,