nonfederal use. The bill stipulated federal coordination procedures between the FCC and NTIA to improve spectrum management and required additional reportin g to Congress and the public on spectrum actions and decisions. The bill would have establishe d a Spectrum Auction Trust Fund in the U.S. Treasury, in which proceeds from certain spectrum auctions would be deposited and used for purposes and programs speci fied in the act, including deficit reduction, $3.08 billion to fully fund the rip -and-replace program, $14.8 billion 18 For example, H.R. 3565 would have (1) provide d SRF funding to NTIA for implementing new spectrum -sharing approaches (i.e., incumbent informing capabilities that enable federal spectrum users to alert nonfederal users about where and when federal systems are operating to manage harmful interference in shared spectrum); (2) expand ed SRF funding to additional agencies that may be affected by changes to the lower 3 GHz band; and (3) direct ed DOD to report more extensively about its use of SRF funding. History of the FCC’s Spectrum Auction Authority: 1993 -2025 Congressional Research Service 8 to support Next Generation 911, $5 billion to support “middle mile” broadband projects,19 and other programs. Spectrum Pipeline Act of 202 4 (S. 3909) The Spectrum Pipeline Act of 2024 ( S. 3909 ) would have reinstated the FCC’s spectrum auction autho rity through September 30, 2027. Further, it would have created a spectrum pipeline — directives to agencies to identify and auction spectrum for future use. The bill did not identify specific bands but set specific quantities of spectrum to auction and dire cted the two spectrum management agencies, the FCC and NTIA, to identify specific bands and to auction those bands in a specific timeframe. The bill directed the head of NTIA to identify a specific quantity of spectrum —2,500 megahertz —for reallocation from federal use to nonfederal use or to shared federal and nonfederal use, including not less than 1 ,250 megahertz for full -power , commercial licensed use cases .20 The head of NTIA was directed to identify spectrum for reall ocation within a specific timeframe : specifically, 1 ,250 megahertz for reallocation within two years and the remaining spectrum within five years. Under the bill, the FCC would have been required to auction the spectrum identified by NTIA and to grant lic enses within a specific timeframe. No later than three years from enactment, the FCC would complete an auction for a certain quantity of spectrum —600 megahertz —and within six years of enactment , the FCC would complete one or more auctions for any remaining spectrum. The bill also would have required the FCC to make a specific quantity of spectrum (no less than 125 megahertz) available for unlicensed use and , within eight years of enactment, to make available any spectrum that is not auctioned and available (e.g., licenses in the FCC inventory). Among other things, the bill would have required that NTIA and the FCC report to Congress on their progress and prop osed