voidable, and thereby suggesting that, at least in the absence of direction from Congress, the President has the power to waive treaty violations). 66 JEFFERSON ’S MANUAL , supra note 27, at 312. 67 See, e.g., Louis Henkin, Litigating the President’s Power To Terminate Treaties , 73 AM. J. INT’L L. 647, 653 (1979) (“One of the arguments made against president ial power is that treaties are the supreme law of the land and it takes a legislative act to repeal a law. This argument, I submit, plays with words. The pr ovision in Article VI that treaties are ‘the supreme law of the land’ is addressed to the courts, and principally for the purpose of declaring treaties supreme in relation to state law and policy.”); Eichensehr, supra note 54, at 267 (“ [T]he Supremacy Clause’s purpose is to establish the primacy of treaties and federal statutes over state law and that their equivalence vis -à-vis state law does not indicate that thei r method of termination is or should be identical.”). 68 See, e.g., John Yoo, Politics As Law?: The Anti -Ballistic Missile Treaty, the Separation of Powers, and Treaty Interpretation , 89 CAL. L. REV. 851, 878 (2001) . 69 Compare U.S. CONST . art. I, § 7 with id. art. II, § 2, cl 2. 70 See, e.g., CRANDALL , supra note 30, at 81; RESTATEMENT (FOURTH ) OF FOREIGN RELATIONS LAW OF THE UNITED STATES § 303(3) (AM. L. INST. 2018) . For examples of treaties approved by the Senate that Presidents have declined to ratify, see CRANDALL , supra note 30, at 97‒99. 71 See supra note 57. Separation of Powers and NATO Withdrawal Congressional Research Service 10 treaties is an exclusive presidential power that Congress cannot restrict through legislation .72 The opinion addressed a statutory provision that required the President to provide notice to Congress at least 120 days before notifying the other state parties that the United States inten ded to withdraw from the Treaty on Open Skies .73 Contending that congressional control of treaty withdrawal interferes with the President ’s “exclusive authority to execute treaties and to conduct diplomacy, ” OLC concluded that the statutory requirement of a congressional -notice period was unconstitutional .74 Deciding whether to withdraw from a treaty is a “quintessentially executive” choice that is committed to the President’s discretion, OLC opined.75 Although not binding on courts or Congress,76 OLC legal opinions have historically been treated as binding within the executive branch .77 Following the United States ’ withdrawal in contravention of the statutory notice requirement ,78 some Members of Congress expressed criticism of the executive branch’s decision not to comply with the congressional notification requirement ,79 and bill text was introduced expressing the sense of Congress that the withdrawal violated federal law, but that text was not enacted .80 In addition, Congress did not take any formal action after the withdrawal . 72 Congressionally Mandated Notice Period for Withdrawing from the Open Skies Treaty , 44 Op. O.L.C.