compete with the company’s desire to invest in new pathways for iron and steel making. Congress may encourag e the industry’s adoption of new innovations in iron and steel production by supporting the deployment of infrastructure for the adoption of new processes (electricity) or offering resources for the production of inputs such as hydrogen .73 In addition, g rants promoting research and development of new iron and steelmaking technologies may lower private firms’ costs for adopt ing such innovations .74 These measures may also carry costs that increase public spending . Tax Credits and Oversight Nippon Steel’s plans to maintain operations of coke ovens and blast furnaces at USS integrated iron and steel mills benefit from government subsidies . In July 2025, Congress extended production tax credits to metallurgical coal —a raw material used in the ironmaking process at legacy integrated iron and steel mil ls. Such tax credits may help lower production costs at these sites.75 Increasing the competitiveness of assets that process and use metallurgical coal at integrated iron and steel mills, such as coke ovens and blast furnaces, may encourage further capital investments in these assets and discourage Nippon Steel from adopting alternative processes for making iron at lega cy USS facilities . Congress may consider offering tax credits for products that use primary steel, such as automotive vehicles , with a domestic content requirement for the steel in the product . In P.L. 117 - 169, Congress offered tax credits to individuals who purchase qualifying vehicles that met the domestic content requirement for critical minerals and battery components used in the vehicle.76 To encourage private sector a cquisition of domestically produced steel, s imilar considerations 71 Vardah Gill , “Cleveland -Cliffs Cancels $500M Hydrogen Steel Plant Project in Ohio ,” Insider Monkey, June 5, 2025, https://finance.yaho o.com/ news/ cleveland -cliffs -cancels -500m -hydrogen -220324084.html . 72 Nippon Steel, “ Nippon Steel Announces Transformative Investments at U.S. Steel’s Mon Valley Works and Gary Works ”; Rebecca Thiele , “Steelmaker Nippon to Reline Gary Works Blast Furnace, Residents Worry About Decades of Pollution ,” WFYI , August 28, 2025, https://w ww.wfyi.org/ news/ articles/ steelmaker -nippon -to-reline -gary-works - blast -furnace -residents -worry -about -decades -of-pollution . 73 Steel Modernization Act of 2024 (H.R. 9334 , 118th Congress ). 74 For examples of public funding of research on innovative iron and steelmaking technologies, see U.S. Department of Energy, “ Funding Selections: Industrial Efficiency and Decarbonization FOA ,” accessed January 6, 2026, https://www.energy.gov/ eere/ ito/funding -selections -industrial -efficiency -and-decarbonization -foa. 75 P.L. 119 -21. 76 26 U .S.C. §30D. Nippon Steel’s Acquisition of U.S. Steel: Potential Implications for the Industry Congressional Research Service R48872 · VERSION 3 · NEW 12 may be ta ken for products using primary steel . Such measures may carry implications for the budget. As discussed, a ccording to Nippon Steel, the national security agreement with the U.S. government gives the President of the United States or a presidential designee consent rights with respect to certain