remains salient , as South Korea enhances its own military capabilities and President Trump has publicly expressed dissatisfaction with the asymmetric nature of the U.S. -ROK alliance.64 Congress may wish to consider whether to support or oppose adj usting the number and composition of U.S. forces in South Korea. Congress also may consider the perceived strategic value of more U.S. forces in the INDOPACOM area of responsibility (AOR) to respond to a regional crisis, or the South Korean government ’s historical financial support for the U.S. troop presence there. Congress may also consider legislating in support of a smaller force presence in South Korea because the presence may be provocative to U.S. adversaries in the region, or based on uncertainty ab out South Korea’s support for using U.S. forces based in South Korea for a conflict with China. Drawing upon its war -related powers, Congress could enact legislation that sets troop minimums or troop maximums.65 In Section 1268 of the FY2026 NDAA (P.L. 119 -60), Congress inserted a provision to prohibit the use of funds to reduce the approximate total number of U.S. troops permanently stationed in or deployed to South Korea below 28,500 until 60 days after the Secretary of Defense meets certain conditions. These conditions include certification by the Secretary to Congress that such a reduction serves U.S. national security interest s and has been done in consultation with U.S. allies and partners, including South Korea and Japan. It would further require the Secretary to submit to the appropriate committees of Congress an analysis of the impact such a reduction may have on t he security of the United States, South Korea, and Japan ; U.S.-ROK joint activities and armed forces interoperability ; and other considerations . Members also may show support for or opposition to altering the U.S. troop presence in South Korea via open he arings, letters to the Administration, and/or other public statements. Congress may request briefings from the Department of Defense (also now Department of War) and other relevant executive agencies on the potential impact of an altered troop presence and related issues and commission committee reports to further investigate the topic. 64 See, for exam ple, Thomas Marcesa, “ Reducing U.S. Troops in South Korea Would Be ‘Problematic ,’ Top Commander Warns,” UPI, April 11, 2025. 65 For example, Section 1254 of the FY2020 NDAA ( P.L. 116 -92) and Section 1258 of the FY2021 NDAA ( P.L. 116 - 283) restricted the use of funds to reduce U.S. troops in South Korea below 28,500 until the Defense Department met certain conditions. Conversely, Section 8125 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 1989 ( P.L. 100 -463) limit s the number of active -duty U.S. forces in Japan and South Korea to 94,450 at the end of each fiscal year. U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 13 Figure 4. U.S. Troops in South Korea, 1955 -2023 Source: CRS, based on data from Dr. Tim Kane, “U.S. Troop