For more in -depth information on congressi onal considerations regarding AUKUS, see CRS Report RL32418, Navy Virginia -Class Submarine Program and AUKUS Submarine (Pillar 1) Project: Background and Issues for Congress , by Ronald O'Rourke . For follow up, congressional staff may contact Jared Tupuola. U.S.-Australia Relations: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 20 armed conflict.156 Australia does not have a treaty obligation to use AUKUS -acquired submarines or any of its other allied military capabilities in service of U.S. defense goals.157 Another aspect of allied defense commitments that may draw congressional interest is burden sharing, which is typically an agreement for a country to contribute to or otherwise share the costs of U.S. mili tary support.158 The Trump Administration has emphasized increasing partner burden sharing as an important part of its defense policy with allies and partners, and the Administration has received support from some Members of Congress on its burden -sharing n egotiations with European allies.159 Some analysts note that NATO’s commitment to ramp up spending to 5% of members’ national GDP may intensify pressure on Canberra (and other Indo -Pacific allies and partners) to follow suit.160 Australian defense officials have argued their commitment to burden sharing via defense spending is evidenced through continued purchases of U.S. arms and financial support to the U.S. industrial base.161 Congress also has shown an interest in U.S. multilateral defense and security co operation initiatives in the Indo -Pacific that include Australia. In the 119th Congress, the Quad Space Act ( S. 1946 ) would require the Secretary of Defense to initiate discussions with Quad member states to identify mutual areas of interest to harmonize space policies, including space industrial policy and situational awareness. In September 2025, the Trump Administrat ion and the Australian government signed a framework for cooperation in aeronautics and outer space for peaceful purposes which the National Aeronautics and Space Administration claims may include cooperation on exploration, space science, space medicine, and aeronautics research amongst other things.162 Tariffs and Trade , and Economic Cooperation In light of the Trump Administration’s imposition of tariffs on Australia, Congress may consider whether such actions align with congressional trade or foreign po licy priorities. In the 119th 156 ANZUS Treaty, Article III, requires the Parties to “consult together whenever in the opinion of any of them the territorial integrity, political independence or security of any of the Parties is t hreatened in the Pacific. Article IV states, “Each Party recognizes that an armed attack in the Pacific Area on any of the Parties would be dangerous to its own peace and safety and declares that it would act to meet the common danger in accordance with it s constitutional processes.” 157 Rod McGuirk, “Australia Won’t Promise to Side with US in Taiwan Conflict,” Associated Press, March 20, 2023; Daniel Hurst, “Australia Has ‘Absolutely Not’ Committed to Join US in Event of War over Taiwan, Marles Says,” Guardi an, March 18, 2023; Georgia Hitch, “No Promise Given to US to Assist