having $2 billion or more in assets. Consequently, many banks with the ability to do so are currently incentivized to provide various forms of support to other institutions. Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 25 This provision is substantially similar to the American Access to Banking Act ( H.R. 4544 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. Section 611. Promoting New Bank Formation New banks face capital requirements that they must be able to meet upon opening their institution. This section would create a pilot program allowing for a two-year phase in for qualifying banks to meet capital requirements upon being chartered. Qualifying banks would have less than $10 billion in assets and have charter dates between January 1, 2026 , and December 31, 2028. The provision would also require the f ederal banking agencies to conduct a study of the pilot program and a report to Congress on the perceived dearth of new banks and ways to promote new bank formation. This provision is substantially similar to the Promoting New Bank Formation Act ( H.R. 478 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. Section 612. Rural Depositories Revitalization Study This section would require the federal banking agencies jointly to issue a report identifying methods to improve the growth, capital adequacy, and profitability of depository institutions that serve rural areas. The study must also identify federal statutes and regulations that limit the growth, capital adequacy, and profit ability of rural depositories and the establishment of de novo depositories. The N ational Credit Union Administration would also be required to issue a similar report that discusses the aforementioned topics for credit unions and de novo credit unions. Bot h reports would be submitted to Congress one year after enactment of this bill.92 This provision is substantially similar to the Rural Depositories Revitalization Study Act ( H.R. 6536 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. Section 613. Discretionary Surplus Fund The aggregate amount of discretionary surplus funds that may be held by all Federal Reserve Banks is limited by law to a maximum of $6.825 billion —any surplus funds exceeding this cap must be remitted to the U.S. Treasury.93 This section would amend the Fe deral Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. §289(a)(3)(A)) to reduce the total amount of discretionary surplus funds that may be held at Federal Reserve Banks by $115,000,000, effective September 30, 2035.94 Reducing the Federal Reserve’s surplus has been used as a pay f or for scoring purposes for financial services legislation in the past.95 There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. 92 For more information regarding issues unique to rural credit markets, see CRS Report R46914, An Overview of Rural Credit Markets , coordinated by Andrew P. Scott . 93 P.L. 114 -94, 12 U.S.C. 289. For examp le, see Federal Reserve, Federal Reserve Board announces Reserve Bank Income and Expense Data and Transfers to the Treasury