General Xavier Brunson, who m the Senate confirmed for th is role in September 2024 .28 (For a brief summary of the three U.S. -led commands —known as the “ Tri-command” —see Table 1 below. For a map of USFK, UNC, and CFC bases, see Figure 3.) U.S. Forces Korea (USFK) Headquartered at Camp Humphreys, U.S. Forces Korea is a four -star level subordinate unified command, responsible for organizing, training , and equipping U.S. forces on the Korean Peninsula.29 In his role as Commander of USFK, General Brunson reports to the commander of Indo-Pacific Command (USINDOPACOM) , who in turn reports to the Secretary of Defense .30 Components of USFK include but are not limited to : • the Eighth Army, which provides the U.S. ground component on the Korean Peninsula ;31 • the Seventh Air Force, responsible for the application of air power on the Korean Peninsula;32 and 26 Darcie Draudt -Véjares, The Transformation of South Korean Progressive Foreign Policy , Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, May 29, 2025 . 27 United States Forces Korea, “Combined Forces Command,” https://www.usfk.mil/ About/ CFC/ . 28 Congressional Record —Senate , daily edition , vol. 170, no. 149 (September 24, 2024). 29 A “subordinate unified command” refers to a command that a Unified Combatant Commander (in this instance, the Commander, USINDOPACOM) establishes to manage particular missions or operations on a permanent basis, comprising forces from at least two military services. For more information , see https://www.armed - services.senate.gov/ imo/media/ doc/brunson_apq_responses.pdf . 30 The U.S. Secretary of Defense i s using “Secretary of War” as a “secondary title” under Executive Order 14347 dated September 5, 2025. For more on USINDOPACOM, se e U.S. Indo -Pacific Command, “About USINDOPACOM,” https://www.pacom.mil/ About -USINDOPACOM/ . 31 United States Eighth Army, https://8tharmy.korea.army.mil/ site/. 32 United States Seventh Air Force, https://www.7af.pacaf.af.mil/ About -Us/. U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 6 • U.S. Naval Forces Korea, which assists the U.S. Seventh Fleet (based in Japan) and the ROK Navy with plans, policies , and training ; it is based at Fleet Activities Chinhae, the only U.S. Navy installation in South Korea .33 United Nations Command (UNC) UN Security Council Resolutions 83 and 84 established the UNC in July 1950 in response to the outbreak of the Korean War, which began when North Korea invaded South Korea on June 25, 1950.34 Member states —led by a U.S. commander —committed to defending South Korea and fought during the Korean War. UNSC Resolution 84 authorized “the unified command at its discretion to use the United Nations flag in the course of operations against North Korean forces concurrently with the flags of the various nations participating.”35 In 1953, U.S. General Mark Clark signed the Armistice Agreement on behalf of the UNC.36 After the war, the UNC maintained operational control of South Korea’s military until the e stablishment of the Combined Forces Command in 1978. Under Armistice conditions , the UNC ’s responsibilities include enforcing the Armistice Agreement, coordinating contributions