lared disaster would be reclassified as CEST ; in the ROAD to Housing Act, they would not. Streamlined environmental review for projects funded by both HUD and USDA §105 §802/§5802 Many of the provisions are substantively the same, but there are some differences. The Housing for the 21st Century Act includes an additional reporting requirement not present in the ROAD to Housing Act , and exempts USDA -assisted infill projects from "any stu dy or report on the environmental effects of such assistance ." Homeownership and Housing Finance FHA multifamily loan limits §106 §213/§5213 Both bills address FHA multifamily mortgage limits. The Housing for the 21st Century Act makes changes to the sta tutory loan limits and the index used to make annual adjust ments to the limits for inflation. The ROAD to Housing Act requires HUD to study changes to multifamily loan limits, including the impacts of changing the index used to make annual adjust ments to the limits for inflation, and allows HUD to make changes to the limits through regulation, up to certain limits. Increased cap on bank investments to promote the public welfare §303 §205/§5205 Many of the provisions are substantively the same, but the Housing for the 21st Century Act includes reporting requirements regarding public welfare investments not present in the ROAD to Housing Act . Small -dollar mortgage s §302 §401/§5401 §402/§5402 Both bi lls address small -dollar mortgages but do so differently: The Housing for the 21st Century Act allows HUD to establish a pilot program to increase access to small -dollar mortgages. The ROAD to Housing Act does not include the HUD pilot program language, bu t it requires the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to submit a report on loan compensation practices in the residential mortgage market , and to evaluate the impact of current points and fees thresholds for qualified mortgages; an d it allows the CFPB Director to issue regulations regarding permissible types of loan originator compensation and amended points and fees thresholds for qualified mortgages to encourage increased lending for small -dollar mortgages . CRS -28 Policy Issue and Subissue 21st Century ROAD Notes on Differences Addition of disclaime r about potential eligibility for VA home loans to the military service question on the Uniform Residential Loan Application (URLA) §402 §601/§5601 The provisions are substantively the same, except the Housing for the 21st Century Act includes language related to the placement of the military service question on the URLA that does not appear in Sec tion 601/Sec tion 5601 of the ROAD to Housing Act . Similar language addressing the placement of the military service question is included in Section 502/Sec tion 5602 of the ROAD to Housing Act . Appraisal industry reforms , including of FHA appraiser workforce standards and certain provisions of FIRREA NA §403/§5403 Include s a comparison of VA- guaranteed loans to FHA-insured loans in the Informed Consum er Choice Disclosure provided to FHA loan applicants NA §602 Appraisal reforms related