in the ROAD to Housing Act , though that act includes additional provisions not included in the Housing for the 21st Century Act. Section 502. Impr oving Public Housing Agency Accountability This section has several provisions related to oversight of the PHAs that administer HUD’s HCV and Public Housing programs . PHAs are established by state law and are generally governed by local b oards. HUD monitors PHA performance in administering federal programs. If a PHA’s performance deteriorates below certain threshold s, or if there are significant findings of waste, fraud, and abuse, HUD —or a court —may place a PHA under the supervision of a HUD - or court - appointed receiver or monitor. This section would require a PHA to notify HUD if it is under a federal monitor , and the start date and scheduled end date (if known) of the monitor, as well as the monitor’s identity. (The New York City Housin g Authority [NYCHA ], the nation’s largest PHA, is currently under the supervision of a federal monitor.) The section would require any receiver or federal monitor overseeing a PHA to provide an annual written report to the House Financial Services and Sena te Banking Committee s including information on the receiver’s activities, the PHA’s progress, and unresolved issues, among other elements . It would require the receiver to promptly furnish additional information , as requested by the committees. The section would also require the HUD OIG to respond within 180 days to any written request by the committees seeking analysis related to PHAs under receiverships or federal monitors. In addition, this section would require HUD to mandate that PHAs publicly disclose all of their contracts on their websites. This requirement is the same as that in the Contracting Accountability and Transparency Act (H.R. 6344 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act . Title VI: Strengthening Community Banks’ Role in Housing This title , included in the engrossed version of the Housing for the 21st Century Act, was not included in the reported version of the bill. Section 601. Community Bank Depo sit Access Banks fund their operation with deposits, other forms of short -term borrowings, and capital. The federal banking agencies regulate the types and standards of funding that banks can use. One such regulation concerns deposit funding, specifically deposits procured by deposit brokers.75 Deposit brokers are businesses that manage and relocate customer deposits (in either separate or new accounts) to take advantage of differences in interest rates paid to depositors and also to 75 For example, see 12 C.F.R. §337.6. Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 20 maximize d eposit insurance coverage.76 Because deposit brokers can move deposits in response to market prices, the deposits sourced from brokers are inherently more mobile relative to traditional deposits accounts in which customers are likely to have selected direc t payroll deposit and bill payment services. Further, because the primary purpose of brokered deposits is to seek yield,