but rather to make calculated policy choices to cooperate and if necessary, recalibrate, its strategic position. Australian Governance and Politics Australia is a federal parliamentary democracy and a part of the British Commonwealth of Nations, of which it was a colony from 1788 to 1901 . The Head of State is the United Kingdom’s King Charles III, who is represented by the Governor -General, currently Sam Mostyn. The Australian parliament, based in the capital city of Canberra, is composed of a 155 -seat body consisting of two chambers: an upper house (Senate) and a lower house (House of Representatives), in addition to the Crown representative. The head of government is the prime minister, currently Anthony Albanese , who leads the Australian Labor Party (ALP, or Labor Party). The country’s judiciary is an independent branch of government led by the High Court of Australia.85 The Australia n federation comprises six states , and 10 territories –three of which are interna l and seven of which are external.86 (Australia also claims ownership of more than 42% of the Antarctic continent . Few governments recognize that claim. The United States recognizes no territorial claims to Antarctica .) Australian states and internal terri tories are partially self - governing with independent executive, legislative, and judicial systems. External territories are overseen by national government departments with some territories hosting bases that, reportedly, the U.S. Navy has considered for infrastructural upgrades to accommodate military operations .87 Australian politics are dominated by two political groups: the Australian Labor Party, a center -left party, and the Liberal -National Coalition, an alliance of conservative -leaning parties led by the Liberal Party of Australia. Australia’s Green Party is a minor but influential party in Australian politics. Since 1968, every elected prime minister has come from either the Labor Party or the Liberal Party.88 The right -wing National Party of Australia is the second member of the Coalition and advocates for rural and agricultural interests.89 A full federal election is held every three years (but the government can call elections earlier) with the most recent election held on May 3, 2025.90 The 2025 elections resulted in a Labor Party victory and the reelection of Prime Minister Albanese , who has served in the role since 2022; it was the first time a prime minister has won consecutive elections in two decades. Liberal Party leader, Peter Dutton, lost his seat in Parliament and the National Party’s leadership withdrew from the Coalition for the first time in 60 years, reportedly claiming policy differences and the Labor victory as reasons for “a break.”91 Politic al commentators in Australia have noted some of the 85 Australian Parliamentary Education Office, What Is the Judiciary and What Does It Do?, https://peo .gov.au/ understand -our-parliament/ your-questions -on-notice/ questions/ what -is-the-judiciary -and-what -does-it-do 86 Australia’s states are: New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria, and Western Australia. The three internal territo ries are: the Australian Capital Territory, the Jervis Bay Territory, and the Northern Territory. The seven external