Housing for the 21st Century Act Updated February 27, 2026 Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov R48849 Congressional Research Service SUMMARY Housing for the 21st Century Act The Housin g for the 21st Century Act ( H.R. 6644 ) was passed by the House on February 9, 2026 . The bill contains six titles compris ing 38 sections, which address several housing policy topics as well as several banking topics . According to the committee report accompanying the reported version of the bill (H.Rept. 119 -457), its purpose is “to make it easier to build and afford housing, including modernizing outdated government programs, lowering costs by removing unnecessary federal requirements, and increasing local flexibility over housing decisions.” The version of the bill passed by the House differs from the version reported by the House Committee on Financial Services in several ways. Among other things, the engrossed version adds a new Title VI, “Strengthening Community Banks’ Role in Housing .” Title V I contains 13 sections: 12 sections incorporate the text of banking -related bills that had previously been reported by the Financial Services Committee, and 1 provides budgetary savings. Most of the sections in the Housing for the 21st Century Act are simi lar to previously introduced stand -alone bills. Additionally, many of the provisions in the Housing for the 21st Century Act are similar to provisions included in the Renewing Opportunity in the American Dream to Housing Act of 2025 (S. 2651 ; also known as the ROAD to Housing Act); some sections are substantially identical, some have similarities but are notably different, and some are present in one bill and not the other. This includes the banking provisions and savings provision contained in Title VI of the Housing for the 21st Century Act, which have no corresponding provisions in the ROAD to Housing Act. Table A -1 provides a comparison of provisions from the Housing for the 21st Century Act to those in the ROAD to Housing Act. Major Components of the Housing for the 21st Century Act Title I contains seven sections concerning housing supply and housing development regulations. Several national indicators suggest that housing supply may be relatively low compared to demand, which can be a contributing factor to decreasing housing affordability. The sections in Title I would seek to publish land use policy guidelines and best practices, including for single -stair reform; establish a grant program for home building pattern books ; adjust and streamline certain environmental review processes; adjust Federal Hous ing Administration (FHA) multifamily loan limits; and require a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study of workforce housing. Title II contains five sections, four of which would make reforms to existing federal housing programs: the HOME Investment Partnerships program, the Community Development Block Grant, the Section 504 rural housing home repair program, and the Housing Choice Voucher program. A fifth section proposes a new competitive grant program to assist planning and implementatio n activities associated with affordable housing. Title III contains three sections concerning the definition