Defense Department Conducting Review of AUKUS Security Pact , U.S. Naval Institute, June 18, 2025, https://news.usni.org/ 2025/ 06/11/defense -department -conducting -review -of-aukus -security -pact. 72 U.S. Congress, Senate Armed Services Committee, To Consider the Nomination of Mr. Elbridge A. Colby , hearings, 119th Cong., 1st sess., March 4, 2025, pp. 62 -64. 73 Mallory Shelbourne, “CNO Nominee Caudle Says Sub Construction Pace Needs to Grow to Deliver on AUKUS Promise,” U.S. Naval Institute News , July 24, 2025 ; U.S. Congress, Senate Armed Services Committee, “To Consider the Nomination of Admiral Daryl L. C audle, Usn, for Reappointment to the Grade of Admiral and to Be Chief of Naval Operations ,” 119th Cong., 1st sess., July 24, 2025, p. 73. 74 Letter from Mike Rogers, Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Adam Smith, Ranking Member of the House Arm ed Services Committee, and Michael T. McCaul, Member of Congress, et al. to Pete Hegseth, Secretary of Defense, June 23, 2025, https://courtney.house.gov/ sites/ evo-subsites/ courtney.house.gov/ files/ evo-media -document/ 06-23-25-letter -to-secdef -on-aukus -review.pdf . U.S.-Australia Relations: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 10 requirements for DOD to provide updates on Pillar II progress. The same report also said the House Appropriations Committee “recognizes the importance of inte rnational initiatives and the trilateral AUKUS security partnership in particular .” During his October 2025 meeting with Prime Minister Albanese, P resident Trump reportedly stated that AUKUS was “full steam ahead” and Secretary of the Navy John Phelan reportedly noted that the Pentagon had plans to work with Australia and the UK to “improve” the original AUKUS framework .75 The intent to move “full steam ahead” was reiterated in a Pentagon press release after the AUKUS Defense Ministers’ Meeting Joint State ment.76 Recommendations from the review ha ve not been made public , but appears to have been shared with at least some Members of the House Armed Services Committee , according to the press.77 Ranking Member Joe Courtney of Connecticut said, “the statutory authority enacted by Congress in 2023 will remain intact, including the sale of three Virginia -class submarines starting in 2032.”78 Public reporting o n the review indicates the review has “identified oppor tunities to put AUKUS on the strongest possible footing ,” including identifying critical deadlines for all three countries to meet and clarifying “some ambiguity that was in that prior agreement.”79 While Australian officials expressed confidence the U.S. review would not lead to the termination of the partnership, the review re -ignited criticism from Australian and U.S. observers.80 Some Australian skeptics express ed concern , for example, that the U. S. industrial base is not capable of meeting AUKUS commitments and that the partnership threatens Australian sovereignty by making its military modernization goals overly dependent on foreign partners.81 Other observers argue d Pillar II of AUKUS lacks a sp ecific purpose to drive its implementation, and that bureaucratic and legal hurdles have stymied progress through an overly broad mandate.82 Despite the broad strategic convergence between Australia and