not always possible , nor are the bands always comparable . Some Members of the 119th Congress have proposed legislation with additional instruction for NTIA. For example, S. 792 would direct NTIA, working with the FCC and the Office of Management and Budget, to estimate the value federal spectrum bands would have if the bands were reallocated for licensed or unlicensed commercial wireless use with the highest potential value. It also directs NTIA to use “dynamic scoring,” which accounts for macroeconomic impacts (e.g., secondary impacts) of the reallocation. S. 794 would require the head of NTIA to audit feder al spectrum allocation and use and to identify spectrum not being used. Some economists assert that a better system of audits —for both federal and commercial use —would help to identify opportunities for reallocating or sharing spectrum.168 The challenge of valuation is that spectrum use is continually changing, and new technologies are constantly emerging, creating new demands on spectrum even as incumbent users may be upgrading or relocating systems. For this reason , some Members have advocated for long -term strategic planning and have proposed legislation for inventorying by the FCC and NTIA to facilitate effective spectrum management decisions.169 167 Sarah Oh Lam and Scott Wallsten, “Federal Spectrum Management Valuation, Management, and Reform: Key Takeaways,” Technology Policy Institute , March 6, 2025, https://techpolicyinstitute.org/ publications/ broadband/ spectrum -and-wireless/ federal -spectrum -valuation -management -and-reform -panel -discussio n/; and ITU, Exploring the Value and Economic Valuation of Spectrum , April 2012, https://www.itu.int/ dms_pub/ itu-d/opb/pref/ D-PREF - BB.RPT3 -2012 -PDF-E.pdf . 168 U.S. Congress, Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, America Offline? How Spectrum Auction Delays Give China the Edge and Cost Us Jobs , hearing, 119th Cong., 1st sess., February 19, 2025 ( see statements from Dr. Hazlett regarding the need for audit of spectrum use) . 169 For example, see S. 2869 . Spectrum Provisions in P.L. 119 -21, the FY 2025 Reconciliation Law Congressional Research Service 29 Presidential Powers on Spectrum P.L. 119 -21 stipulates that the President shall modify and withdraw any frequ ency proposed for reallocation under the act no later than 60 days before the commencement of an auction if the President determines that such modification or withdrawal is necessary to protect U.S. national security. While the President has authority to a mend, modify, or revoke frequency assignments, these authorities have generally been delegated to the Secretary of Commerce, not including the authority to make final disposition of appeals from frequency assignments.170 Given recent spectrum disputes,171 NTIA, as the spectrum management agency representing federal agency and national spectrum interests in discussions with the FCC, has clarified coordination processes with the FCC in a memorandum of understanding. The agencies are to meet regularly on spectr um, communicate on spectrum actions, and identify as early as possible in the decisionmaking process technical issues that have a likelihood of generating disputes and are to act to assess such issues. If such disputes cannot be resolved by senior spectrum staff, they may