by making its military modernization goals overly dependent on foreign partners.81 Other observers argue d Pillar II of AUKUS lacks a sp ecific purpose to drive its implementation, and that bureaucratic and legal hurdles have stymied progress through an overly broad mandate.82 Despite the broad strategic convergence between Australia and the United States, some observers have noted that Pre sident Trump’s foreign policy interests may cause Canberra to re -assess certain elements of its cooperation with the United States. One analyst contends the Trump Administration ’s desire for Australia to increase its defense spending and U.S. strategic presumptions of Australia’s role in a potential Indo -Pacific conflict could lead to friction.83 Others question whether a United States “America First” foreign policy should prompt A ustralia to adopt a more holistic approach to security and consider a “Plan B” in the case of a post -alliance world.84 75 Joe Gould, “Trump Affirms Support for Nuclear Sub Deal,” Politico , October 20, 2025. 76 U.S. Department of Defense, “AUKUS Defense Ministers’ Meeting Joint Statement,” December 10, 2025, https://www.war.gov/ News/ Releases/ Release/ Article/ 4356910/ aukus -defense -ministers -meeting -joint-statement/ . 77 Brad Ryan, “Pentagon ’s AUKUS Review Finds Areas to Put Nuclear Submarine Pact on ‘Strongest Possible Footing,’” Australian Broadcasting Corporation, December 4, 20 25. 78 The Office of Congressman Joe Courtney, “Ranking Member Courtney: Pentagon’s Review Fully Endorses AUKUS,” press release, December 4, 2025, https://courtney.house.gov/ media -center/ press -releases/ ranking -member - courtney -pentagons -review -fully -endorses -aukus . 79 Brad Ryan, “ Pentagon ’s AUKUS Review Finds Areas to Put Nuclear Submarine Pact on ‘Strongest Possible Footing ,’” Australian Broadcasting Corporation, December 4, 2025. 80 Kristy Needham, Renju Jose, and David Brunnstrom, “Australia Confident US Will Proceed with Biden -Era Submarine Pact After Review,” Reuters, June 11, 2025. 81 Lucia Stein and Taryn Priadko, “Why the AUKUS Deal Is Still a Controversial and Perplexing Issue for Most Australians,” Australian Broadcasting Network , February 11, 2025. 82 Peter Dean and Alice Nason, “AUKUS Pillar II Is Failing in Its Mission,” War on the Rocks , June 2, 2025. 83 Evan A. Feigenbaum, “ Beneath the Mateship, a Quiet Crisis Is Brewing in the U.S. -Australia Alliance ,” Carnegie Endowment for Peace, June 23, 2025, https://carnegieendowment.org/ posts/ 2025/ 06/us-australia -alliance -quiet -crisis? lang= en. 84 Richard Dunley, “Plan B?: Reconsidering Australian Security in the Event of a Post US Alliance era,” Australian Journal of International Affairs , vol. 78, no. 4 (July 18, 2024). U.S.-Australia Relations: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 11 While these arguments recognize areas of difference in strategic interests between the United States and Australia, they do not inherentl y argue for Australia to buck its alliance, but rather to make calculated policy choices to cooperate and if necessary, recalibrate, its strategic position. Australian Governance and Politics Australia is a federal parliamentary democracy and a part of the British Commonwealth of Nations, of which it was a colony from 1788 to 1901 . The Head of State