oversight of new or developing economic cooperation initiatives between the United States and Australia. At AU SMIN 2025, principals from both countries affirmed their desire to leverage economic cooperation as a tool for strengthening national security and agreed to establish an Export Finance Australia (Australia’s export credit and overseas development finance agency) office in Washington, D.C. They also agreed to explor e opportunities for national security -oriented critical mineral offtake arrangements and a potential Customs Mutual Assistance Agreeme nt “to prevent, investigate, and disrupt customs law violation.”163 Critical Minerals Supply Chain Cooperation Given Australia’s critical mineral resources and the Australian government’s prioritization of developing this sector, Members who are interested in supporting the diversification and securitization of critical mineral supply chains accessible to the United States may consider further steps to expand cooperation with Australia in this area. In the 119th Congress, the House passed legislat ion (H.R. 1263 ) directing the Department of State to craft a Quad engagement strategy, which would include a summary of current and past critical mineral supply chain initiatives. I n light of the Quad Critical Minerals Initiative announced in July 2025, Congress may seek to draft further legislation to shape the scope and focus of the initiative . In 2022 , the Quad Critical Minerals Partnership Act ( S. 3962 ) would have require d executive agencies to prioritize cooperation on critical mineral investments.164 Author Information Jared G. Tupuola Analyst in Foreign Affairs 163 U.S. Department of State, “Joint Fact Sheet on Australia -U.S. Ministerial Consultations (AUSMIN) 2025,” December 8, 2025, https://www.state.gov/ releases/ office -of-the-spokesperson/ 2025/ 12/joint-fact-sheet -on-australia -u-s- ministerial -consultations -ausmin -2025 . 164 CRS Report R47982, Critical Mineral Resources: National Policy and Critical Minerals List , by Linda R. Rowan . U.S.-Australia Relations: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service R48875 · VERSION 1 · NEW 22 Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.