Meeting of the U.S. -Mexico Security Implementation Group ,” January 23, 2026. Mexico: Background and Key Issues in U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 6 continued , but Economic Support Fund (ESF) assistance for human rights and rule -of-law programs ended following the Trump Administration’s termination of many foreign aid programs . The FY2026 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA ; P.L. 119 -60) require s a report on joint training with Mexico to combat transnational criminal organizations (TCOs; §1274) , a plan to improve bilateral counterdrug cooperation (§6717) , a report o n addressing fentanyl trafficking from countries such as Mexico (§8313) , annual reports on efforts to prevent methamphetamine smuggling from Mexico (§8318) , and a strategy for countering TCOs in Mexico (§8365 ). The National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs Appropriations Act , Division F of the FY2026 Consolidated Appropriations Act (P.L. 119 -75), withhold s 30% of the unspecified INCLE funds made available to Mexico until the Secretary of State certifies that the Mexic an government has met five antidrug - and law enforcement -related conditions. The Senate Intelligence Committee’s reported version of the FY2026 Intellige nce Authorization Act ( S. 2342 ) would require U.S. intelligence agencies to develop plans to improve their antidrug collaboration with the Mexican government. The Senate Foreign Relat ions Committee reported legislation ( S. 1780 ) would requir e the Secretary of State to submit a report to it and the House Foreign Affairs Committee a report with a st rategy for U.S. s ecurity assistance to Mexico and to report annual ly on its implementation . The committee also passed legislation ( S. 860 ) that would impose targeted sanctions related to the production and trafficking of synthetic opioids. In addition to the legislation that has been enacted and considered, the 119th Congress could specify a level of INCLE assistance for Mexico and require the Administration to publicly release data on how INCLE and other funding from FY2024 onward ha s been spent . Congress also could recomme nd how funds be used and potentially withhold assistance until certain conditions are met. In addition, Congress could pass a resolution to authorize or prohibit strikes or other U.S. military operations at the border, at sea, or inside Mexico. Congress could hold hearings, conduct delegations, or write letters to both U.S. and Mexican officials to assess curr ent cooperation . Collaboration on Migration Trump Administration actions to counter unauthorized migration into the United States have affected Mexicans in the United States and migrants seeking to enter the United States from third countries through Mexi co. On January 20, 2025, President Trump suspended the entry of unauthorized migrants at the southwest border, including nearly all asylum seekers ;30 that suspension of asylum has been subject to legal challenge. President Trump also ended use of the CBP One application, a U.S. Customs and Border P rotection tool the Biden Administration created to manage appointments for asylum seekers at ports of entry, thereby canceling