Toward Commercial Fusion Energy: Considerations for Congress February 27, 2026 Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov R48866 Congressional Research Service SUMMARY Toward Commercial Fusion Energy: Considerations for Congress While there has been considerable U.S. public and private investment in developing fusion energy, scientific and technological hurdles remain for commercial viability . Congress may have an interest in U.S. strategic positioning in regard to fusion energy technology as countries around the world, including China, are competing to be the first to achieve commercialized fusion energy. Nuclear fusion is a process in which the nuclei of two lightweight atoms join, or fuse, to form a heavier nucleus, releasing energy. Achieving fusion requires three conditions : (1) heating a small quantity of fuel above its ignition point, (2) maintain ing the reaction long enough for the release of fusion energy to exceed the energy input, and (3) convert ing the energy released to a useful form of energy (e.g. , electricity). As of the date of this report, just one project claims to have successfully achieved the first condition and partial ly achieved the second. Once all three are achieved, electricity genera ted by a fusion reaction would then need to be integrated into the electric grid, which may introduce additional engineering and technical challenges . Different designs and technologies are being explored to achieve commercial fusion energy . Federally fun ded fusion energy research and development (R&D) is primarily supported by the Department of Energy’s (DOE ’s) Office of Science through its Fusion Energy Science s (FES) program . In FY 2025, the FES program budget was $790 million. According to the U.S. Gove rnment Accountability Office ( GAO ), from FY2020 to FY2023 , about 70% of FES’s budget support ed three projects, including two DOE user facilities and an international fusion project called ITER , formerly the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor, which account ed for about 30% of the total FES budget. DOE also supports fusion energy research directed toward weapons activities and improve d stewardship of the U.S. nuclear weapons stockpile . This latter work includ es inertial confinement , an approach used in the National Ignition Facility (NIF) at the DOE Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory to initiate fusion reactions . In 2022, NIF became the first facility to achieve “ignition ,” when the energy released by the fusion reaction is greater than the energy directly expended to create the reaction , an event that has increased interest in inertial confinement designs for future power plants. In 2024, DOE released its Fusion Energy Strategy, which focuses on three pillars: (1) resolving the scie ntific and technological gaps to a fusion pilot plant , (2) paving the way for commercial fusion deployment , and (3) cultivating and expanding partnerships . As part of the strategy , DOE developed a science and technology roadmap composed of targeted actions and metric -driven milestones to guide DOE investments in order to support a competitive U.S. fusion energy industry . The number of private fusion companies