-1.3 For more details on the ROAD to Housing Act, see CRS Report R48732, ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 , coordinated by Henry G. Watson . Legislative Status The engrossed version of the bill differs from the reported version in several ways. It adds or revises sunset dates f or a number of pilot programs, it strikes a provis ion that was enacted into law subsequent to the bill having been reported by committee , and i t removes a provision requiring a U.S. Government Accountability Office ( GAO ) study on a federal uniform residential 1 For more on the current state of U.S. housing market s, see CRS Report R48743, Housing Issues in the 119th Congress , coordinated by Katie Jones . 2 The House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs was discharged from further consideration of the bill on January 15, 2026 . 3 Where comparisons are made between the Housing for the 21st Century Act and the R OAD to Housing Act, the version of the R OAD to Housing Act that was incorporated into the NDAA is used as the basis for comparison . Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 2 building code. It also requires the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development ( HUD ) to review and update Build America, Buy America guidance with respect to the HOME program, rather than making Build America, Buy America provisions inapplicable to HOME -assisted housing activities. In addition, it adds a new Title VI, “Strengthening Community Banks’ Role in Housing .” Title VI contains 13 sections: 12 sections incorporate the text of banking -related bills that ha d previously been reported by the Financial Services Committee, and 1 provides budgetary savings. A score released by the Congressional Budget Office determine s that the bill would not increase the deficit.4 The se ction summaries provided in this report a re based on the version of the Housing for the 21st Century Act that was engrossed in the House on February 9, 2026 . Differences between the engrossed and reported versions of Titles I -V are noted in footnotes in the text of the report. Summary of the Housing for the 21st Century Ac t (H.R. 6644 ) Title I: Building Smarter for the 21st Century Section 101. Housing Supply Frameworks Local governments’ zoning and land use policies have been identified by many housing market researchers as one of several contributing factors to an undersupply of housing, relative to demand, in some areas of the country. One federal approach to affecting local zoning and land use policy has been to provide guidance, technical assistance, and research to promote certain reforms designed to increase housing development . For this purpose, HUD has maintained the Regulatory Barriers Clearinghouse (RBC) since 2 001, as required in statute (42 U.S.C. §12705d). The RBC collects, disseminates, and publishes research and examples pertaining to state and local regulations and policies that affect affordable housing .5 This section would abolish the RBC