press release, May 10, 2023, https://www.helionenergy.com/ articles/ announcing -helion -fusion -ppa-with-microsoft -constellation/ . 100 Helion Energy, “2025 at Helion,” press release, December 31, 2025, https://mailchi.mp/ helionenergy/ 2025 -at- helion? e=ea7341b1ff . 101 Dan Drollette Jr., “After ITER: What China and Others Are Doing in Fusion. Interview with MIT’s Dennis Whyte ,” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists , vol. 80, no. 6 (2024), pp. 371 -376. 102 Harry Booth, “Why the AI Industry Is Betting on a Fusion Energy Breakth rough,” Time , October 29, 2025, https://time.com/ 7328213/ nuclear -fusion -energy -ai/. 103 Arman Shehabi et al., 2024 United States Data Center Energy Usage Report , Lawrence Berkeley Nation al Laboratory (LBNL), LBNL -2001637, December 2024, p. 5 , https://eta -publications.lbl.gov/ sites/ default/ files/ 2024 -12/ lbnl-2024 -united -states -data-center -energy -usage -report.pdf . While cryptocurrency is one type of service supported by data centers, not all studies of energy consumption of data centers touch upon energy usage related to cryptocurrency. The report note d that its calculations assumed that data centers would operate consistently with how they were commissioned and designed but that results may differ. 104 Shehabi et al., 2024 United States Data Center Energy Usage Report , p. 6. Toward Commercial Fusion Energy: Considerations for Congress Congressional Research Service 23 According to one report, numerous companies that own, operate, or utilize data centers , including Google, Nvidia, Japan’s SoftBank, Japan’s NTT, and the Gates Frontier, have invested in fusion energy companies .105 As discussed previously, Microsoft and Google have both signed purchase agreements with fusion companies to supply power to their data centers if and when they are able to produce electric power. Genesis Mission AI is also being utilized in research to address the scientific and engineering challenges related to fusion energy. DOE’s Genesis Mission , launched in 2025, is “a national initiative to build the world ’s most powerful scientific platform to accelerate discovery science, strengthen national security, and drive energy innovation ” by developing “ an integ rated platform that connects the world ’s best supercomputers, experimental facilities, AI systems, and unique datasets across every major scientific domain to double the productivity and impact of American research and innovation within a decade .”106 The m ission is focused on three overarching challenge areas: energy dominance, scientific discovery, and national security. DOE selected f usion as one of the technology areas that the Genesis Mission will initially focus on. Fusion activities will concentrate o n supporting the S&T roadmap by building an AI -fusion digital convergence platform intend ed to accelerate timelines to achieve a sustained burning plasma, aid in materials discover y, and help close the fusion fuel loop, leading toward the ability to harnes s fusion power.107 The extreme temperatures and energy produced within a fusion device cause the materials within the device to degrade. It has been suggested that AI may aid in determining how certain classes of materials degrade over time under fusion co nditions by simulating the conditions within a fusion