organization is operated exclusively for exempt purposes. Therefore, while the private inurement prohibition may arguably be subsumed within the private benefit analysis of the operational test, the reverse is not true.”). See also IRS, PUB. NO. 6101, EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS TECHNICAL GUIDE, TG 3-8: DISQUALIFYING AND NON-EXEMPT ACTIVITIES , INUREMENT AND PRIVATE BENEFIT – IRC SECTION 501( C)(3), at 5 (2025) (“[A]ll inurement is private benefit, but not all private benefit is inurement.”). At least one commentator has argued for a consolidation of the two prohibitions because they can be confused and confla ted and are redundant. See, e.g. , Westenberger, supra note 16, at 251 –52. See also Am. Campaign Acad. , 92 T.C. at 1068 (“ Nonetheless, we have often observed that the prohibition against private inurement of net earnings appears redundant, since the inurement of earnings to an interested person or insider would constitute the conferral of a benefit inconsistent with operating exclusively for an e xempt purpose. In other words, when an organization permits its net earnings to inure to the benefit of a private shareholder or individual, it transgresses the private inurement prohibition and operates for a nonexempt private purpose. ” (citation omitted) ). 18 Treas. Reg . § 1.501(c)(3) -1(c)(2), (d)(1)(ii). 19 Id. § 1.501(c)(3) -1(d)(1)(ii) . See also Christian Stewardship Assistance, Inc. v. Comm’r, 70 T.C. 1037 (1978); Korean -Am. Senior Mut . Ass’n v. Comm’r, 120 T.C.M. (CCH) 191 ( 2020). For a comparison of th e prohibition on private benefit to the prohibition on private inurement, s ee infra Table 1. The Prohibitions on Private Inurement & Benefit by Tax -Exempt Organ izations and Intermediate Sanctions Congressional Research Service 3 because it did not provide burial benefits to nonmembers of the community and did not provide a subsidized dues program.20 While the statutory language in § 501(c)(3) prohibits all private inurement, the IRS has interpreted an incidental amount of private benefit to be permissible.21 Whether a private benefit is incidental depends on the nature and amount of the private benefit in comparison to the exempt purpose served, that is , the “public benefit.”22 Organizational and Opera tional Tests As mentioned above, § 501(c)(3) organizations must be “organized and operated exclusively” for an enumerated exempt purpose. If the organization fails either the so -called “organizational” or “operational” test —for example, based on a finding of a private benefit —it will no longer be exempt from federal income tax.23 Private benefit is one way in which an organization can fail the organizational and operational tests; other ways an organization can fail include engaging in prohibited political activity.24 Thus, the prohibition on private benefit is an application of the more general “organizational” or “operational” test s. The organizational test relates to the purposes and activities of the organization described and authorized in its governing documents. The operational test relates to the actual activities conducted by the organization. Both tests must be satisfied.25 Organizational Test To satisfy the organizational test, the articles of organization26 (1) must