revert to the U.S. Treasury. 47 The Housing for the 21st Century Act would add itionally reclassify several housing activities for the purposes of NEPA (see the discussion of Section 104). 48 The reported version of the bill would have exempted all HOME -assisted housing activities (excluding infrastructure improvements) from the requi rements of the Build America, Buy America Act. The text of this provision in the engrossed version of the bill is identical to Section 2 of the Affordable Housing Supply Chain Clarity Act (H.R. 7344 ). 49 See Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. §1701u). 50 Low HOME Rent requirements state that at least 20% of HOME -assisted units in a project must have rents that do not exceed 30% of 50% of area median i ncome. These Low HOME Rent units must be occupied by families with incomes not exceeding 50% of area median income. Under current regulation, this requirement only applies to projects with five or more HOME -assisted units (24 C .F.R. §92.252(a)(2)). Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 11 allocation —from $500,000 to $750,000, without regard to congressional appropriations.51 This section is similar, but not identi cal, to the HOME Reform Act of 2025 ( H.R. 5878 ). The ROAD to Housing Act also proposes reforms to the HOME program. There are some overlapping HOME reform provisions between the Hou sing for the 21st Century Act and the ROAD to Housing Act, but also many provisions that are only present in one bill or the other. Section 202. Community Development Fund Amendments The CDBG is a formula grant provided to states and certain localities. E ligible CDBG activities fall into five general categories: planning and administrative activities , public works and public facilities , housing -related activities , public services , and economic development .52 New construction of housing is not an eligible a ctivity unless carried out by qualified Community - Based Development Organizations (CBDOs) as part of larger projects, or unless statutory requirements are waived for disaster recovery. State and local grantees are required to submit a Consolidated Plan tha t details their housing and community development needs, including any public policies that may constitute barriers to affordable housing.53 This section would make new construction of housing an eligible CDBG activity. Under th e section, new housing const ruction must qualify as affordable housing under the HOME program (42 U.S.C. §12745) and may not account for more than 20% of a grantee’s CDBG funding allocation. This section would also require CDBG grantees to submit to HUD information about whether they have adopted certain land use policies in the preceding five-year period, and any plans they have to adopt and implement these policies in the future. The submissions “shall not be bindi ng with respect to the use or distribution” of CDBG grant dollars. The land use policies listed in this section include increasing density in residential zoning, streamlining or shortening permitting processes