Not Be Allowed to Veto Spectrum Availability,” Citizens Against Government Waste , October 16, 2025, https://www.cagw.org/ dod-must -not-be-allowed -to-veto-spectrum - availability/ ; and Free State Foundation (@FSFthinktank ), “I agree w/@dcolliercagw @GovWaste on this. And there is an additional reason @SenatorFischer’s amendment should be stricken. It would preclude the president from exerc ising ultimate control of the Executive Branch. This violates #separationofpowers, ” X post, October 16, 2025 . Spectrum Provisions in P.L. 119 -21, the FY 2025 Reconciliation Law Congressional Research Service 30 it would hinder the President’s executive authority.176 The final NDAA for FY2026 ( P.L. 119 -60), enacted December 18, 2025, did not include the provision. In the NSS Implementation Plan , the executive branch specified a dispute resolution process. For the Lower 3 GHz and the 7/8 GHz bands, the plan states, “Outstanding issues arising from the study implementation, results, or recommendations (if any) will be subject to resolution as set forth in the President’s February 4, 2021, Memorandum on Renewing the National Security Council System. Furthermore, the Office of the Joint Chiefs of Staff may, if it so chooses, provide a written National Security Risk Assessment to the President through the Secretary of Defense before any decisi on is made to repurpose this band.”177 The 2021 presidential memorandum specifies that the National Security Council shall be the “principal forum for consideration of national security policy issues requiring Presidential determination,” and establishes in teragency committees to consider issues affecting national security and to advise the President.178 On December 19, 2025, directly after signing the NDAA for FY2026, President Trump issued a presidential memorandum, “Winning the 6G Race,” which accelerates studies of several bands, focusing particularly on reallocation of federal systems in the 7.125 -7.4 GHz band, and provides for extensive involvement of White House officials in spectrum relocation studies and decisionmaking. While coordination with the White House could add complexity and time to spectrum decisionmaking, some experts assert that involvement from the White House on spectrum issues could focus and enhance interagency coordination on critical spectrum issues and support U.S. leader ship on global spectrum policy.179 Concluding Observations In P.L. 119 -21, Congress established a spectrum pipeline —it identified quantities of spectrum for reallocation, sp ecific bands for reallocation, and bands for future study. Freeing spectrum for commercial use can spur innovation, improve services, yield economic gains, and bolster U.S. leadership in the global telecommunications market. Given increasing wireless techn ology use, rising demand for spectrum from multiple emerging technologies (e.g., mobile, satellite, Wi -Fi), and current spectrum use by federal and nonfederal users, spectrum reallocation is expected to be challenging and time consuming . Considering mandat es in P.L. 119 -21 and in the December 2025 presidential memorandum, the FCC and NTIA may face challenges in identifying and reallocating 800 megahertz of spectrum for full -power commercial licensed use in the spectrum range and timelines specified in the act. As Congress is relying on proceeds from spectrum auctions to fund provisions in P.L. 11 9-21,