4385 /S. 970) and to a provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. Section 405. Reforms to Housing Counseling and Financial Literacy Programs HUD -approved housing counseling agencies provide clients with guidance on a range of housing topics, including pre - and post -purchase homeownership counseling and rental housing counseling. HUD approves housing counseling agencies that meet specified criteria, administers housing counselor certification requirements, and provides competitive grants to HUD -approved housing counseling organizations. Statutory requirements related to HUD -approved housing counseling agencies are at 12 U.S.C. §1701x. This section would amend 12 U.S.C. §1701x to make certain changes to HUD housing counse ling requirements. These would include changes to language governing the distribution of housing counseling funds; the addition of certain provisions related to performance reviews; adding provisions describing actions the HUD Secretary can take upon a det ermination that an individual counselor lacks competence, based on certain measures; and adding provisions related to the termination of assistance to organizations under certain circumstances. It would also provide for those borrowers with mortgages made, guaranteed, or insured by HUD, V A, or USDA who become delinquent to be given an opportunity to participate in available housing counseling, and allow the costs of such counseling to be paid for out of FHA’s Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund (MMI Fund) if cer tain measures related to the financial stability of the MMI Fund are met. This section is substantially similar to H.R. 6726 and to provisions in the ROAD to Housing Act . 71 In the reported version of the bill, the pilot program would have lasted for 10 years. Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 18 Section 406. Establishment of Eviction Helpline Interest in increasing the role of the federal government in helping to prevent residential evictions began before, but increased during, the COVID -19 pandemic.72 This section would require HUD to establish w ithin one year an eviction helpline available for residents of federally assisted housing, defined broadly to include tenants receiving rental assistance through HUD programs, living in properties that receive support from any HUD program, or living in pro perties financed with mortgage loans insured by FHA or backed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. The hotline would b e required to provide counseling, resource s, and referrals to eviction -related assistance. The program would sunset seven years after enactment.73 This section is substantially the same as the Eviction Helpline Act ( H.R. 5889 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act . Section 407. Temperature Sensor Pilot Program Federally assisted housing is required to meet certain minimum quality standards that, due to relatively recent policy changes, incorporate minimum temperature standards .74 Federally assisted housing u nits are physically inspected against tho se standards annually, biennially, or triennially , depending on the program and a property’s prior inspection score. This provision would authorize a new three -year pilot program to provide grants to selected owners of federally assisted housing properties to acquire,