the added external energy from the experimental apparatus are deemed burning plasmas . Under the right conditions, burning plasmas can approach or exceed the point at which the reaction achieves ignition , where the energy resulting from the re action is great er than the energy directly needed to enable the reaction . The Sun is an example of a self- sustaining2 burning plasma that has reached ignition. Creating and maintaining a fusion reaction requires fuel. Various types of fuels have been proposed for fusion reactor3 technologies , including isotopes of hydrogen, such as deuterium and tritium ,4 or heavier elements, such as boron . According to a report from the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) , “the deuterium -tritium reaction is the easiest to achieve, so it is highly studied and the likely basis for the first fusion energy systems .”5 When deuterium and tritium fuse, they produce helium, and excess energy is released because the remaining potential energy is lower than when the deuterium and tritium were separate (see Figure 1). According to 1 For additional information on nuclear fission , see CRS Report R42853, Nuclear Energy: Overview of Congressional Issues , by Mark Holt . 2 A self -sustaining fusion reaction is dependent on a constant sourc e of fuel. For example, ignition is achieved in an inertial confinement fusion device when lasers are directed onto a fuel “pellet ,” which creates the fusion reaction. Once the fusion reaction occurs, energy is released, and the reaction ends. The process starts over with each new pellet that is added to the device . 3 A reactor is the device in which the reaction will take place. The term nuclear reactor is typically related to a nuclear fission reactor. For fusion, these types of devices are often referre d to as “fusion machines ” (see “Regulation and Permitting for Commercial Fusion Energy ”). 4 “Deuterium is a stable isotope of hydrogen, which, unlike ‘normal ’ hydrogen atoms, or protium, also contains a neutron. The isotope deuterium has one proton, one neutron and one electron ” (Puja Daya , “What Is Deuterium? ,” International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA], January 13, 2023, https://www.iaea.org/ newscenter/ news/ what -is- deuterium ). Tritium “is a hydrogen atom that has two neutrons in the nucleus and one proton ” (Environmental Protection Agency, “ Radionuclid e Basics: Tritium ,” January 22, 2026 , https://www.epa.gov/ radiation/ radionuclide - basics -tritium ). 5 U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) , Fusion Energy: Potential ly Transfor mative Technology Still Faces Fundamental Challenges , GAO -23-105813, March 2023, p. 4, https://www.gao.gov/ products/ gao-23-105813 . Toward Commercial Fusion Energy: Considerations for Congress Congressional Research Service 2 one fusion expert, “Everything in the universe aspires to be iron —so light things fuse a nd heavy things split to move toward the middle of the periodic table (i.e., iron). At the light end of the scale, deuterium and tritium are the furthest away from iron, so they have the greatest aspirations.”6 Achieving practical fusion