of the FY2026 NDAA (P.L. 119 -60) prohibits the use of certain funds defense -wide and available for the Office of the Secretary of Defense until the Secretary of Defense submits to Congress a report on how he intends to advanced U.S. -ROK -Japan trilateral cooperation , as required by the FY2025 NDAA ( P.L. 118 -159). Members may choose to hold hearings with senior U.S. defense officials and experts assessing the current state of trilateral cooperation , contextualized by U.S. strategic objectives regionally and globally. In addition, Congress may opt to continue , stop, increase, or decrease fund ing U.S. contributions to trilateral cooperation -related activities , such as the military exercises and other efforts. 153 For example, in February 2019, when So uth Korea -Japan relations were entering a particularly tense phase, a bipartisan, bicameral group of lawmakers, including the chairmen and ranking members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Senate Foreign Relations Committee, co -sponsored a resolut ion (H.Res. 127 and S.Res. 67 ) affirming the importance of U.S.-South Korea -Japan trilateral cooperation. Figure 6. ROK President Y oon, U.S. President Biden, and Japanese Prime Minister Kishida at Camp David August 18, 2023 Source: The White House 46 Archived, on X. U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 27 U.S.-South Korean Cooperation on Shipbuilding154 Delays in U.S. Navy shipbuilding programs, U.S. shipbuilding capacity constraints, and maintenance backlogs for Navy ships —particularly when viewed in comparison to China’s naval and commercial shipbuilding activities and China’s much -larger shipbuilding capacity —have prompted discussions in Congress about options for accelerating the constru ction of new Navy ships, reducing Navy ship maintenance backlogs, and increasing the capacity of the U.S. shipbuilding industry.155 (For more on U.S. shipbuilding capacity, see CRS Report RL32665, Navy Forc e Structure and Shipbuilding Plans: Background and Issues for Congress , by Ronald O'Rourke .) Within these discussions, some observers have focused on options for increasing U.S. cooperation on shipbuilding with South Korea and Japan, whose shipbuilders a re widely regarded as being among the world’s most modern and efficient. Potential areas of U.S. cooperation with South Korea on shipbuilding include the following: • sharing of shipbuilding best practices; • investment by South Korean shipbuilders in U.S. shi pyards; • conducting maintenance, repair, and overhaul (MRO) work on U.S. Navy ships in South Korean shipyards; and • building new ships for the U.S. Navy in South Korean shipyards. The United States and South Korea cooperate in the first three areas above. As an example of cooperation in the first area, in April 2025, the U.S. shipbuilder Huntington Ingalls Industries (one of the top builders of new ships for the U.S. Navy) signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with Hyundai Heavy Industries (one of South Korea’s top three shipbuilders) for the sharing of shipbuilding best practices.156 Regarding the second area listed above, in August 2025, the South Korean government pledged to i nvest $150 billion to support shipbuilding in the United States as