U.S. 1 (2015). Separation of Powers and NATO Withdrawal Congressional Research Service 24 three.184 In this case, the Court held that the President has an “exclusive” and “conclusive” power185 that “disabl[es] the Congress from acting upon the subject” —specifically, the recognition of foreign states.186 As the Court explained, “[r] ecognition is a ‘formal acknowledgement ’ that a particular ‘entity possesses the qualifications for statehood ’ or ‘that a particular regim e is the effective government of a state. ’”187 As discussed, the Court earlier held in Zivotofsky I that the case was justiciable because no political question was presented by the plaintiff’s challenge to the State Department’s refusal to comply with the statute requiring the State Department to record in a passport or a consular report of birth abroad the birthplace of U.S. citizens born in Jerusalem as “Israel .”188 On remand , the D.C. Circuit held that the statute was unconstitutional .189 After holding that the President had exclusive power to recognize foreign states,190 the court determined that the statutory requirement impermissibly infringed on that power because it “ force [d] the State Department to deviate from its decades -long position of neutrality on what nation or government, if any, is sovereign over Jerusalem .”191 The Supreme Court granted review for a second time in the litigation192 and upheld the D.C. Circuit’s decisi on.193 The Court began its analysis by observing that “[i]n considering claims of Presidential power this Court refers to Justice Jackson ’s familiar tripartite framework from Youngstown .”194 Because t he President’s action at issue —“refusal to implement” the passport statute —“falls into Justice Jackson’s third category ,” the Court stated, the President’s claim of authority “must be ‘scrutinized with caution,’ and he may rely solely on powers the Constitution grants to him alone. ”195 Acknowledging that the text of the Constitution does not expressly reference the recognition power,196 the Court nevertheless concluded that the Constitution implicitly grants the President such power based on the President’s other express Article II powers and the Constitution’s stru cture .197 184 See id. at 31–32; cf. id. at 61 (Roberts, C.J., dissenting) (“ Today ’s decision is a first: Never before has this Court accepted a President ’s direct defiance of an Act of Congress in the field of foreign affairs .”). In Youngstown , the Supreme Court struck down President Truman’s order seizing many of the nation’s steel mills —which he justified based on the need to ensure the availability of sufficient materiel for fighting the Korean War —on the ground that the President did not have either congressional or constitutional authority to take such action. See Youngstown , 343 U.S. at 585–89; see also id. at 640 (Jackson, J., concurring) (“[T] he current seizu re [can] be justified only by the severe tests under the third grouping, where it can be supported only by any remainder of executive power after subtraction of such powers as Congress may have over the subjec t.”). 185 Zivotofsky II , 576