majority’s analysis of the constitutional text and interbranch practices analysis was principally driven by functional considerations that improperly minimized congressional actions, stating , “In the e nd, the Court ’s decision does not rest on text or history or precedent. It instead comes down to ‘functional considerations ’—principally the Court ’s perception that the Nation ‘must speak with one voice ’ about the status of Jerusalem. ” Id. at 80 (Scalia, J ., dissenting) (quoting Garamendi , 539 U.S. at 424 ). 261 See supra “The Supreme Court’s Youngstown Framework for Separation of Powers Cases .” 262 See supra “The Executive Branch’s 2020 Claim to Exclusive Treaty Withdrawal Power .” Separation of Powers and NATO Withdrawal Congressional Research Service 33 in both Zivotofsky II and Trump ,263 but it remains uncer tain how a court would rule if it were to agree to hear a case challenging a Section 1250A violation given the absence of controlling Supreme Court precedent on the treaty -withdrawal power.264 Absent judicial enforcement, Congress may consider responding to what it believes to be a violation of Section 1250A by using its institutional tools to influence the executive branch, which include impeachment, oversight, exercising the power of the purse to eliminate executive branch funding, and withholding approval for nominations.265 Additionally, if a President were to withdraw the United States from the North Atlantic Treaty, all existing NATO -related legislation would appear to remain in effect, and it would be up to Congress to determine whether any statutes should be repealed or amended. Because many NATO -related provisions are not dependent on whether the United States is a party to the treaty,266 Congress may be able to achieve some NAT O-related policy objectives through new legislation. For example, in response to President Carter’s withdrawal from the United States’ mutual defense agreement with Taiwan in 1979,267 Congress enacted the Taiwan Relations Act,268 which provides that “the Uni ted States will make available to Taiwan such defense articles and defense services in such quantity as may be necessary to enable Taiwan to maintain a sufficient self-defense capability.”269 Congress may also consider that , in addition to statutory prohibi tions of unilateral presidential treaty withdrawal such as in Section 1250A, other congressional actions that might be understood by courts or the pol itical branches as assertions of congressional treaty withdrawal authority include, for example, placing r estrictions on the President’s authority to withdraw from treaties in the Senate’s resolutions providing advice and consent to the President’s ratification of those treaties270 or in authorizing legislation .271 Congress may also consider the potential ly complex state of affairs if a court were to enforce Section 1250A and enjoin a President from unilaterally withdrawing from the North Atlantic Treaty. Even with an injunction in place, other questions may arise over whether the President 263 See supra “Zivotofsky ex rel. Zivotofsky v. Kerry ” & “ Trump v. United States .” 264 See supra “Justiciability Issues in Enforcing Section 1250A “Constitutional Analysis of Section 1250A