similar to provisions in the ROAD to Housing Act , although the provisions in Housing for the 21st Century related to HUD’s issuance of revised standards and HUD’s primary authority to establish standards are not included in ROAD . Section 302 . FHA Small -Dollar Mortgages Research generally shows that lower -priced properties are less likely to be financed with mortgages than higher -priced properties, and that applications for smaller mortgage loans are more likely to be denied.60 There is no for mal definition of a small dollar mortgage , but researchers and industry participants have used the term to refer to mortgages below certain thresholds, such as $70,000, $100,000, or $150,000. While a number of potential factors may contribute to challenges related to small -mortgage lending —including borrower credit characteristics, property condition, and greater competition from all -cash buyers —a significant barrier is that small mortgages are generally less profitable for lenders, for a variety of reasons . A particular challenge is that many origination costs are fixed, making it less profitable to originate a smaller mortgage loan than a larger one.61 This section would allow HUD, acting through the Federal Housing Commissioner, to establish a pilot prog ram to increase access to small -dollar mortgages . The program would be time -limited and would include certain reporting requirements. 60 Urban Institute, Improving the Availability of Small Mortgage Loans , December 2022, https://www.urban.org/ sites/ default/ files/ 2022 -12/Improving%20the%20Availability%20of%20Small%20Mortga ge%20Loans.pdf ; and Pew, Small Mortgages Are Too Hard to Get , June 22, 2023, https://www.pew.org/ en/research -and-analysis/ issue -briefs/ 2023/ 06/ small -mortgages -are-too-hard-to-get. 61 HUD Office of Policy Development and Research, Financing Lower Priced Homes: Small Mortgage Loans , October 2022, https://www.huduser.gov/ portal/ /portal/ sites/ default/ files/ pdf/Financing -Lower -Priced -Homes -Small -Mortgage - Loans.pdf . Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 15 These provisions are not included in the ROAD to Housing Act, although that act contains different provisions addressing small -dollar mortgages.62 Section 303. Community Investment and Prosperity The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA; P.L. 95 -128, as amended; 12 U.S.C. §§2901 -2908), was enacted to encourage banks to meet the credit needs of the localities in which they were chartered.63 The CRA specifically encourages banks to make “public welfare investments ” (PWIs), which promote the public welfare by providing housing, services, or jobs that primarily benefit low - and moderate -income individuals. The PWI authority all ows banks to engage in activities that typically would not be permitted, as long as these activities promote the public welfare and do not expose institutions to unlimited liability. For example, banks generally cannot make direct purchases of the preferre d or common equity shares of other banking firms. They may, however, purchase equity shares of institutions with a primary mission of community development , up to an allowable limit. The Financial Services Regulatory Relief Act of 2006 (P.L. 109 -351) ame nded Section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of the United States and the Federal Reserve Act