Nippon Steel’s Acquisition of U.S. Steel : Potential Implications for the Industry March 4, 2026 Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov R48872 Congressional Research Service SUMMARY Nippon Steel’s Acquisition of U.S. Steel: Potential Implications for the Industry United States Steel Corporation (USS) is an iron and steel manufacturer that employ s about 14,000 workers in the United States . It is one of two companies operat ing domestic facilities that produce both iron and steel on -site (integrated iron and steel mill) . These domestic facilities can produce both new and high -quality grades of steel, which c ertain m anufacturers (e.g., automotive companies ) use in their products . Japanese firm Nippon Steel Corporation (Nippon Steel) finalized its acqui sition of USS in June 2025 , following approval of the transaction by President Trump . USS’s management under this new ownership may carry implications for domestic employment and the rate of innovation adoption in the industry . In recent years, USS has taken some actions that coincided with falling steel prices. For example, the company reduc ed output and shutter ed some of its legacy facilities , which has led to layoffs of workers in Michigan and Illinois . In addition, the company made investments in new facilities ( away from legacy iron and steelmaking facilities located in the Great Lakes region ) that produce raw steel using scrap steel—a process that is less labor -intensiv e than making new steel from iron . After USS publicly announced its acquisition by Nippon Steel in December 2023 , the parties sought two regulatory approvals from the U.S. government . First, t he Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) began a review of the implications of Nippon Steel’s ownership of USS for U.S. national securit y. Second, t he Department of Justice conducted a separate U.S. government inquiry on antitrust concerns. Workers employed by USS, a rival steelmaker of USS , some steel buyers , and some Members of Congress , responded to USS’s announcement by publicly raising concerns on how a successful acquisition or an alternative outcome may affect employment and the performance of steel and steel -using industries . In response to some of these stakeholder concerns , Nippon Steel made commitments to maintain existing USS facilities and add iron and steelmaking capacity in the United States . This plan may affect steel prices and operations at legacy integrated iron and steel mills if domestic steel demand does not keep up with the anticipated supply increase. Public polic ies that look to increase the demand for iron and steel in the domestic market carry potential costs and limitations . For e xample , laws requir ing some public works projects to use domestically manufactured steel may more directly benefit scrap -based steelmakers that produc e a dominant share of steel used in construction over operators of integrated iron and steel mills . Nippon Steel’s plans to maintain or restart assets at existing USS integrated iron and steel mills