https://www.autonews.com/ ev/an-100-ev-hybrid -timeline -0428/ . The U.S. Automotive Industry: Selected Issues Congressional Research Service 3 reliant on domestic sales data; however, domestic sales and production data are not analogous given the volume of vehicles that the United States imports. This is n ot a comprehensive list of automotive manufacturers in the United States but includes the manufacturers with a market share above 2% in 2024. Varying tiers of suppliers (e.g., produce rs of parts, components , and technolog ies for vehicles ) support the automotive industry . Domestic part, component, and technology suppliers are located across the country and account ed for 2.5% of GDP in 2023 , according to one estimate .9 Many automotive manufacturers , including th ose headquartered in the United States , rely on suppliers from foreign countries —particularly Canada and Mexico —for vehicle parts .10 Factors that contribute to the globalization of automotive supply chains include cost competitiveness, economies of scale, and larger suppliers tending to be foreign.11 Automotive manufacturers ’ reliance on foreign suppliers for components, parts, and technologies has resulted i n ranging percentages of domestic content in vehicles. Legislation in the 102nd Congress amended the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act to add labeling requirements for automobiles.12 These provisions of law and related regulations require automotive manufacturers to label new cars with the proportion of domestic content (which includes Canad ian content ).13 The regulations set out a purpose “to aid potential purchasers in the selection of new passenger motor vehicles by providing them with information about the value of the U.S./Canadian and foreign parts content of each vehicle, the countries of origin of the engine and transm ission, and the site of the vehicle ’s final assembly. ”14 Several entities have used th ese data to develop metrics to evaluate the American -made indices of new vehicles .15 Compan ies producing vehicles and parts in the United States rely on foreign markets to sell their products and export ed over $150 billion in value in 2024 .16 Sales by automotive companies in foreign markets, such as Europe and Asia, may affect domestic production, investments, and staffing plans . In recent years, Chinese automotive manufacturers have increased the production and sales of their vehicles and components in China and in the global market (see Figure 2).17 As Chinese automotive manufacturers increased their capacity in China and overseas , the presence of non-Chinese automotive manufacturers , including U.S. companies , decreased in some of these 9 MEMA, The Vehicle Suppliers Association , “Original Equipment Suppliers Survey Reveals Supplier Base Feeling Impact of Industry Disruptions,” press release, October 3, 2023, https://www.mema.org/ news/ mema -original - equipment -suppliers -survey -reveals -supplier -base-feeling -impact -industry . 10 American University, Kogod School of Business, “2025 Made in America Auto Index ,” accessed December 2, 2025, https://kogod.american.edu/ autoindex/ 2025 ; and Patrick Masterson, “2025 Cars.com American -Made Index: Which Cars Are the Most American?, ” Cars.com, June 17, 2025, https://www.cars.com/ american -made -index/ #article -top. 11 Florian