of new vacant and abandoned housing conversion grants NA §212/§5212 Other Program Reforms HOME: program reforms §201 §502/§5502 Both bills would raise the minimum allocat ion for newly qualifying PJs, remove the general and CHDO -specific commitment deadlines, modify the CHDO definition, exempt small -scale housing from certain requirements, waive certain homeownership requirements for heirs and members of the military, and allow the HUD Secretary to make certain out -of-compliance PJs ineligible to receive reallocations of funds. Both bills would also adjust the maximum p er-unit subsidy limits, modify the maximum purchase price for homeownership housing, and modify provisions related to Community Land Trusts, but with substantive differences. The Housing for the 21st Century Act would additionally eliminate the rehabilitat ion preference statement, codify that HOME rent limits do not apply to HCV payments, allow periods of affordability to terminate for certain troubled projects, increase the maximum income eligibility for HOME -assisted housing for homeownership, expand eligible uses for HOME dollars for certain PJs, exempt certain HOME activities from NEPA review, direct the HUD Secretary to issue updated B uild America, Buy America guidance, and exempt certain HOME projects from Section 3. The ROAD to Housing Act would addit ionally reauthorize the program, increase the share of grants that may be used for administrative costs, modify requirements for CHDO set -aside funds, modify homeownership resale restrictions, revise PJ monitoring requirements, and revise penalties for non compliance and misuse of funds. RHS: program reforms §204 §503/§5503 The Housing for the 21st Century Act includes nearly identical reporting provisions as the ROAD to Housing Act . It also contains Section 504 program changes that are similar, but not identical, to those included in the ROAD to Housing Act . The ROAD to Housing Act contains a range of additional rural housing program reforms related to loan program changes and rural housing preservation that are not included in the Housing for the 21st Century Act . CRS -31 Policy Issue and Subissue 21st Century ROAD Notes on Differences HCVs: modified voucher inspection process §205 §405/§5405 While the provisions are ordered differently, they are substantively the same , with one exception : the Housing f or the 21st Century Act adds additional conditions to the use of remote inspections beyond what is included in the ROAD to Housing Act . Exclusion of service -connected disability compensation when determining income for HUD programs §401 §603/§5603 The provisions are substantively the same . HUD -USDA -VA Interagency Coordination §403 §801/§5801 Many of the provisions are substantively the same, though there are some differences. The Housing for the 21st Century Act has a one-year timeline for submission of an interagency report, compared to 180 days in the ROAD to Housing Act . The Housing for the 21st Century Act requires the report be issued to additional committees compared to the ROAD to Housing Act . The ROAD to Housing Ac t would require the report to include additional elements , not included in the Housing for the