human environment.” Additio nally, HUD’s Office of General Counsel may determine that a program’s activities are not federal actions to which NEPA, or other provisions of law that further the purposes of NEPA, apply (see, for example, HUD Notice CPD -16-14, “Requirements for Housing T rust Fund Environmental Provisions,” August 8, 2016). 17 42 U.S.C. §4336(b) requires that an agency issue an Environmental Impact Statement for a proposed agency action that has a reasonably foreseeable , significant effect on the quality of the human enviro nment , or an Environmental Assessment for a proposed agency action where the effects are unknown or reasonably foreseeable effects are not significant (unless a categorial exclusion [ CE] applies). 18 42 U.S.C. §4336(a)(2). Further, 42 U.S.C. §4336e(1) defin es a “categorical exclusion” as a category of actions that a federal agency has determined normally does not significantly affect the quality of the human environment. For additional information related to legislative CEs, see CRS Report R48595, Legislative Categorical Exclusions Under the National Environmental Policy Act , by Heather McPherron . 19 For a list of activities for which HUD exempts responsible entities from compliance with environmental review requirements, see 24 C.F.R. §58.34. Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 5 any action under NEPA or other federal environmental laws and authorities. However, e ven exempt activities must comply with certain requirements including airport runway clear zones and accident potential zones, coastal barrier resources, and flood insurance.20 If a project is not exempted, HUD or responsible entities comply with environmental review requirements under 24 C.F.R. Parts 50 and 58 by pursuing one of the following levels of review:21 • Categorically excluded from NEPA . For categorically excluded activities, the responsible entity does not have to prepare an environmental assessment (EA) or an environmental impact statement (EIS), except in extraordinary circumstances.22 Some categorically excluded activities are subject to the other related federal environmental laws and authorities listed in 24 C.F.R. §§50.4 or 58.5 (CEST) and others are not (CENST).23 These other related authorities listed in 24 C.F.R. §§50.4 or 58.5 include environmental requirements, guidelines, and statutory obligations such as the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. §§470 et seq.), the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. §§ 1531 et seq.), and HUD environmental standards specified in 24 C.F.R. Part 51, among others. • EA. Activities not exempt or categorically excluded from NEPA must complete an EA.24 If, based on the analyses within the EA, HUD or the responsible entity determ ines that the project will not result in a significant impact on the quality of the human environment, it documents that determination in a Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI). • EIS. If it is evident without preparing an EA that a project may result in significant impacts or if the EA concludes in a “finding of significant impact ,” HUD or the responsible entity must prepare an EIS and document its finding in a “record of decision .”25 Some stakeholders have argued that environmental reviews