Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 20 with ROK legal requirements.”113 It is unclear how this plan interacts with or relates to the 12th SMA, but ROK National Security Advisor Wi Sung -lac reportedly has said the $33 billion figure could include indirect costs such as waived taxes and fees for U.S. troops in South Korea.114 Such indirect costs typically have not been part of SMAs.115 Congress may choose to utilize various tools to influence U.S. -ROK cost -sharing negotiations and agreements. Initially, Congress could use its oversight authority to conduct hearings on the executive branch’s implementation of the SMA or to establish congr essional notification and reporting requirements. Congress may consider whether to exercise its spending power to encourage the executive branch to pursue Congress’s preferred posture toward the SMA. Congress also could increase or decrease funding for the bilateral alliance to advance its policy toward the 12th SMA. Congress also may choose to seek clarification as to how the reported $33 billion in ROK contributions to USFK factor into the 12th SMA, and what understanding the United States and South Korea have rega rding the timeframe for the contributions , specific areas of support for USFK , and other details. Chain of Command /Wartime Operational Control For nearly three decades, U.S. and ROK leaders have discussed changing the way U.S. and ROK forces are integrated. In particular, the two allies are in the process of changing operational control, or OPCON, a military term that refers to the legal authority to direct and control military forces in the execution of missions or wartime operations. Under the current arrangement, each country retains operational control of its forces under armistice conditions (conditions short of war).116 In the event that hostilities on the Korean Peninsula escalate beyond a certain threshold, the United States and South Korea may decide to activate the Combined Forces Command ( CFC ) and implement a “wartime OPCON” structure for directing military forces. Under the current arrangement, t his structure would put U.S. and ROK forces under the CFC’s command, led by a four-star U.S. general with a South Korean deputy.117 Neither country would relinquish command authority over its own troops. In 2007, the U.S. and ROK reached a bilateral agreement to change the wartime OPCON structure, but it remains unimplemented (see below) . Under the wartime OPCON structure laid out in the 2007 agreement, a n ROK general would become the CFC head, and the U.S. general would serve a s deputy. As is the case under the current (pre -OPCON transfer) arrangement, neither country would relinquish command authority over its own troops.118 The 2007 agreement to change wartime OPCON , which President George W. Bush reached with progressive ROK President Roh Moo -hyun (in office 2003 -2008), was intended to reflect the ROK’s advances in economic and military strength and place the military alli es on more equal footing. 113 The White House, “Joint Fact Sheet on President Donald J. Trump’s Meeting with President