was introduced “ call[ing] on the administration to consider continued participation in the Treaty on Open Skies .” H. Res. 54, 117th Cong . (2021) . Separation of Powers and NATO Withdrawal Congressional Research Service 11 Congressional Rejection of Exclusive Presidential Withdraw al Power in Section 1250A of the 2024 NDAA In what might be understood as a rejection of the executive branch’s position that the President possess es exclusive power over treaty withdrawal , in 2023, Congress enacted what appears to be the first statute prohibiting the President from unilaterally withdrawing from a treaty (specifically, the North Atlantic Treaty ).81 Section 1250A of the 2024 NDAA provides that the President “shall not suspend , terminate, denounce, or withdraw the United States from the North Atlantic Treaty ” without the advice and consent of the Senate, with two -thirds of Senators present concurring, or pursuant to an act of Congress.82 Additionally, t he statute prohibits use of appropriated funds to withdraw from the Nor th Atlantic Treaty without the advice and consent of the Senate, with two - thirds of Senators present concurring or pursuant to an act of Congress .83 Section 1250A also requires the President to consult with the House and Senate foreign affairs committees “in relation to any initiative” to withdraw the United States from the North Atlantic Treaty, and to notify those committees “of any deliberation or decision ” to withdraw from the North Atlantic Treaty “as soon as possible but in no event later than 180 day s prior to taking such action .”84 To date, the 2020 OLC opinion has not been withdrawn , suggesting that the executive branch may maintain that the President has exclusive treaty withdrawal pow er, including power to unilaterally withdraw from the North Atla ntic Treaty .85 Changing Practice in Treaty Withdrawal Paradigms The United States’ treaty withdrawal practice can be summarized in several key events and stages. Congressional Termination (1798) . The United States’ first treaty withdrawal after the Constitution’s adoption took place pursuant to legislation stating that four treaties “shall not henceforth be regarded as legally obligatory on the government or citizens of the United States.”86 Shared Withdrawal Power (19th century) . Treaty withdrawal w as treated as a shared power between the legislative and executive branches, and both branches authorized or approved withdrawal.87 Shift to Unilateral Presidential Power (20th century to present ). Unilateral withdrawal by the executive branch bec omes the predominant practice.88 81 22 U.S.C. § 1928f(a) ; see also Kaine & Rubio Applaud Adoption of Their Amendment to the NDAA to Prevent Any U.S. President from Leaving NATO (July 13, 2023), https://www.kaine.senate .gov/press -releases/kaine -and-rubio - applaud -adoption -of-their-amendment -to-the-ndaa -to-prevent -any-us-president -from -leaving -nato (quoting Sen . Rubio as stating that the amendment “ensure [s] that current and future U.S. Presidents cannot leave NATO without rigorous debate and consideration by the U.S. Congress with the input of the American people ”); Final Package Includes McClellan Amendments (Dec. 14, 2023), https://mcclellan.house.gov/media/press -releases/mcclellan -helps