and security and justice are not endangered and to refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force in any manner incon sistent with the Purposes of the United Nations, or obligations assumed by any Party toward the United Nations. ARTICLE II The Parties will consult together whenever, in the opinion of either of them, the political independence or security of either of the Parties is threatened by external armed attack. Separately and jointly, by self help and mutual aid, the Parties will maintain and develop appropriate means to deter armed attack and will take suitable measures in consultation and agreement to implement t his Treaty and to further its purposes. ARTICLE III Each Party recognizes that an armed attack in the Pacific area on either of the Parties in territories now under their respective administrative control, or hereafter recognized by one of the Parties as l awfully brought under the administrative control of the other, would be dangerous to its own peace and safety and declares that it would act to meet the common danger in accordance with its constitutional processes. ARTICLE IV The Republic of Korea grants, and the United States of America accepts, the right to dispose United States land, air and sea forces in and about the territory of the Republic of Korea as determined by mutual agreement. ARTICLE V This Treaty shall be ratified by the United States of Am erica and the Republic of Korea in accordance with their respective constitutional processes and will come into force when instruments of ratification thereof have been exchanged by them at Washington. ARTICLE VI This Treaty shall remain in force indefinit ely. Either Party may terminate it one year after notice has been given to the other Party. IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned Plenipotentiaries have signed this Treaty. DONE in duplicate at Washington, in the English and Korean languages, this first day o f October 1953. UNDERSTANDING OF THE UNITED STATES [The United States Senate gave its advice and consent to the ratification of the treaty subject to the following understanding:] It is the understanding of the United States that neither party is obligated , under Article III of the above Treaty, to come to the aid of the other except in case of an external armed attack against such party; nor shall anything in the present Treaty be construed as requiring the United States to give assistance to Korea except in the event of an armed attack against territory which has been recognized by the United States as lawfully brought under the administrative control of the Republic of Korea. U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service R48877 · VERSION 2 · NEW 37 Author Information Daniel J. Longo Analyst in Foreign Affairs Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.