mentor to a “rural depository institution ” (defined by the section as having total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion and being located within certain geographic areas) or by otherwise qualifying as a “small depository institution ” (defined by having total consolidated assets less than or equal to $2 billion, or by qualifying as a “minor depository institution ”).90 The Treasury Secretary would prescribe guidance or regulations for the program as well as circumstances in which institutions can be excluded from participation. This section appears to formalize a similar practice already associated with bank regulation. At present, banks may be evaluated under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA; P.L. 95 - 128, 12 U.S.C. §§2901 -2908), specifically its “service test ,” if they provide eligible support to institutions in need of assistance and particularly for “impact institutions .”91 Eligible support includes capital investments, deposit placement, t echnical assistance, and lending partnerships that help smaller financial institutions serve low - and moderate -income communities, which are similar to the types of support defined in this section for a mentor -protege program. Thus, a formal mentor -protege program implemented by Treasury may either complement or possibly supersede analogous qualifying activities incentivized by CRA (currently implemented and enforced jointly by the federal prudential banking regulators). Section 609 is substantially similar to the Advancing the Mentor -Protege Program for Small Financial Institutions Act ( H.R. 3709 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. Section 610. American Access to Banking New banks are referred to as de novo institutions. This section would establish a requirement for regulators to review and streamline the application process for new banks. The bank regulators would also be required to report to Congress on act ions and recommendations on how banks raise capital, and they would be required to consult with the Securities and Exchange Commission about how its requirements may restrict capital access. The provision would also require agencies to assign a caseworker to a de novo bank to be the point of contact between the bank and its regulator. 89 Amends Section 308 of FIRREA of 1989 . 90 A depository institution can be either a ban k or credit union, which can legally accept deposits insured by the FDIC or the National Credit Union Administration, respectively. 91 For more information, see CRS Report R48096, Modernization of the Commu nity Reinvestment Act , by Darryl E. Getter . When federal prudential banking regulators updated the CRA, “impact institutions ” were defined as minority - owned financial institutions, women -owned financial institutions, low -income credit unions, and communi ty development financial institutions. Under the CRA, a “large bank ” is defined as having $2 billion or more in assets. Consequently, many banks with the ability to do so are currently incentivized to provide various forms of support to other institutions. Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 25 This provision is substantially similar to the American Access to Banking Act