with the United States. Supporters assert that the governing National Regeneration Movement (MORENA) has empowered working people after decades of economic dominance by elites ; by contrast , some critics compare MORENA to the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), which led authoritarian governments in Mexico from 1929 to 2000 with few checks and balances .1 Growth remained modest in 2025 due to fiscal tightening amid high levels of public debt , uncertainty limiting investment and consumption, a declin e in remittances, and tariffs imposed by the Trump Administration .2 This report provides an overview of Mexico under President Claudia Sheinbaum ’s administration (2024 -present) , an analysis of select ed bilateral issues —security cooperation, migration control, and trade and tariffs —and options for how Congress may shape U.S. policy toward those issues . Political and Economic Situation Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum was inaugurated to a six -year term in October 2024. Sheinbaum, a climate scientist, is Mexico’s first female president and a close ally of MORENA founder and former President Andrés Manuel López Obrador (2018 -2024). Sheinbaum won 59% of the vote in a three -way race in June 2024 after pledging to build on her predecessor’s legacy of poverty reduction . In the concurrent legislative election, MORENA and its allies also secured the two-thirds majorities in both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate which are necessary to pass constitutional reforms. Seated on September 1, 2024, before Sheinbaum took office, the new congress approved some constitutional reforms proposed by former President López Obrador, including a reform req uiring the direct election of federal judges. The first round of judicial elections , held in June 2025 , had low turnout (10%) and resulted in a MORENA -aligned supreme court and other federal courts, deepening concerns about MORENA ’s one -party dominance .3 President Sheinbaum has maintained approval ratings near or above 70%.4 She has continued aspects of López Obrador’s legacy by holding daily morning press conferences, passing and implementing constitutional reforms he supported, and maintaining social welfare programs despite budget limitations. The majority of the 22 constitutional reforms enacted durin g Sheinbaum’s first year were proposed by López Obrador, but some reflected Sheinbaum’s priorities, including reforms aimed at broadening the public security ministry ’s authorities , advancing gender equality , and addressing extortion . For 2026, Sheinbaum is seeking to pass constitutional electoral system reform that would end proportional representation in congress , reduc e public funding for political parties, and allow voters to select National Electoral Institute (INE) councilors.5 Supporters assert the reforms would reduce costs , whereas critics warn the reforms could weaken pluralism, end small parties, and politicize INE staff who run the elections. 1 Humberto Beck, “Lopez Obrador’s Transformation of Mexican Democracy,” Current History , February 2025; Aldo F. Ponce, “The Weakening of the Mexican Party System: The Rise of AM LO’s MORENA,” in Political Parties and the Crisis of Democracy: Organization, Resilience, and Reform , eds. Thomas Poguntke and Wilhelm Hofmeister (Oxford University Press, 2024). 2