costly alternative that does not involve a transaction with a G -SIB,86 and does not exceed the cost of liquidating the institution; • is less than or only as costly to the DIF as the maximum cost criteria established by the FDIC; and • result s in an acquiring institution paying the appropriate assessments to the FDIC. This section is substantially similar to the Least Cost Exception Act ( H.R. 6547 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. Section 608. Failing Bank Acquisition Fairness This section would narrow the existing exceptions to the concentration limits pertinent to bank acquisitions to cases where87 • a bid for a merger comes from a company that is both well capitalized and well managed; 88 and • a bank is either in default or in danger of default, and the regulators determine such a transaction is necessary to prevent significant economic disruption or effects on financial stability; or • the FDIC has provided assistance to facilitate the merger. Further, the provision would require any agency that waives the concentration limit to submit a report to Congress justifying the waiver and describing the alternative bids and why th ey were not chosen. The provision would also prohibit the FDIC from considering bids that would result in the violation of these sections as amended when determining the bid that would meet the least cost resolution requirement. 84 For example, 12 U.S.C. §1852 limits the amount of deposits a given banking organization can hold, which cannot exceed 10 % of the aggregate consolidated liabilities of all financial companies. 85 For more information on the bank resolution process, see CRS In Focus IF10055, Bank Failures and the FDIC , by Raj Gnanarajah . 86 There are eight U.S. financial institutions that have been designated as G -SIBs based on their systemic importance. 87 To narrow this exception, the provision would amend several areas of statute, including 12 U.S.C. §1852, 12 U.S.C. §1828(c), 12 U.S.C. §1831u(b), and 12 U.S.C. §1842. 88 A qualified bid is defined in Section 18(c)(13)(C) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. §§1811 et seq.). Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 24 This provision is substanti ally similar to the Failing Bank Acquisition Fairness Act ( H.R. 6556 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. Section 609. Advancing the Mentor -Protege Program fo r Small Financial Institutions This section would mandate the Secretary of the Treasury to establish a program to be known as the Financial Agent Mentor -Protege Program.89 Under this program, a large depository institution with consolidated assets greater than or equal to $50 billion could serve as a mentor to a “rural depository institution ” (defined by the section as having total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion and being located within certain geographic areas) or by otherwise qualifying as a “small depository institution ” (defined by having total consolidated assets less than or equal to $2