see P.L. 119 -4. For FY2026, see H.R. 7148 , Division D, Title II. As of the cover date of this report, HUD has not released an FY2025 NOFO for the PRO Housing competition. Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 13 While the ROAD to Housing Act included versions of these provisions, it also included a number of additional changes to USDA rural housing programs that are not included in the Housing for the 21st Century Act. Section 205. Choice in Affordable Housing Before a family can move into a rental housing unit with a n HCV , the unit must first be inspected by the local Public Housing Authority (PHA) that administers the HCV program to ensure it meets minimum federal physical quality standards. Assuming it passes inspection , the unit must be reinspected annually thereafter as a condition of ongoing assistance . This requirement was revised by th e Housing Opportunity Through Modernization Act (HOTMA; P.L. 114 -201) to allow a third -party inspection associated with another housing assistance program to temporarily meet the initial inspection requirements of the HCV program, allowing families to move in to units prior to the completion of the PHA inspection (which is still required). This section would make a number of changes to the initial inspection requirements for the HCV program . It would allow for remote inspections in rural or small areas and create a mechanism for landlords newly participating in the HCV program to have their units pre -inspected. It would further direct that PHAs provide a list of any such pre -inspected units to tenants when they are selected to participate in the HCV pro gram. It would also allow inspections under the Low - Income Housing Tax Credit program, the HOME program, or various Rural Housing Service programs to fully satisfy the inspection requirements of the HCV program, subject to certain conditions , eliminating t he current requirement for a PHA inspection in these circumstances. These provisions are similar to a section of the Choice in Affordable Housing Act of 2025 (H.R. 1981 /S. 890 ) and to provision s in the ROAD to Housing Act. Title III: Expanding Manufactured and Affordable Housing Finance Opportunities Section 301. Manufactured Housing Innovations Manufactured hou sing is a type of housing that is constructed in a factory and transported to a home site for installation. Manufactured housing typically costs less than site -built housing due to smaller home sizes and lower costs per square foot.57 While most housing is subject to state and local building codes,58 manufactured homes are subject to a national building code: HUD ’s Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards (often referred to as the HUD Code ).59 HUD was directed to develop these standards by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974. The standards first went into eff ect in 1976, and HUD updates them periodically with input from the Manufactured Housing Consensus Committee. 57 See, f or example, Christopher