Korean Peninsu la and in the Taiwan Strait align s with U.S. theater -wide deterrence efforts —particularly vis -à-vis China —and argue its value would be greater if the United States deployed precision strike and other advanced military capabilities on the peninsula. However , if a conflict around Taiwan broke out, some expert s have question ed whether redistributing troops may reduce readiness or increase South Korea’s vulnerability to PRC or North Korean provocations .83 In addition, USFK largely consists of U.S. Army ground forces, and in its configuration as of February 2026 , USFK’s effectiveness for use in a Taiwan conflict may be limited.84 Some observers have noted that the Trump Administration could decide to bolste r air and naval assets on the peninsula while reducing ground forces to better counter PRC and other regional threats .85 Role of ROK Forces in a Potential Conflict over Taiwan Even if USFK were to adopt a dual -purpose posture, it is less clear what role ROK forces might play in a conflict over Taiwan. South Korean civilian and military leadership h ave taken a more cautious approach to questions about possible ROK actions in the event of a cross -Strait conflict. This caution may find its roots in mult iple South Korean concerns, including U.S. abandonment if USFK were deployed off the peninsula; entanglement of South Korean forces in a regional conflict; and the possibility that North Korea might seek to take advantage of a distracted United States duri ng a Taiwan conflict and undertake military provocations against South Korea. Such scenarios may make U.S. and ROK bases in South Korea a target. South Korean officials have argued that in any conflict, the ROK military should remain focused on the North K orean threat.86 In a Taiwan contingency, some analysts expect U.S. policymakers to count on South Korea to continue deterring North Korea and provide indirect military assistance to Taiwan , such as logistical support for U.S. forces and reconnaissance aga inst PRC military assets.87 In 2022, then - President Yoon underscored that in the event of a Taiwan contingency, “ the top priority for … the U.S. Korean alliance on the Korean peninsula would be based on our robust defense posture, [so] we [South Korea] must deal with the North Korean threat first .”88 While campaigning, current President Lee was asked whether, if he were elected, South Korea would aid Taiwan if China 81 U.S. Air Force, Kunsan Air Base, “ 431st Expeditionary Reconnaissance Squadron Activates, Hosts Assumptions of Command ,” September 29, 2025. 82 Brad Lendon, “ US Establishes New Reaper Drone Unit 250 Miles from China ,” CNN , September 30, 2025. 83 Jeongmin Kim and Joon Ha Park , “What North Korea Stands to Lose If US Forces Korea Expands Mission to China ,” NK News , May 1, 2025 ; Andrew Yeo and Hanna Foreman, “ Is South Korea Ready to Define Its Role in a Taiwan Strait Contingency? ” Brookings Institution, March 28, 2025. 84