by Supporting Exploitation of Cuban Doctors,” The Hill , December 8, 2025; and Gobierno de México, “Conferencia de Prensa,” October 16, 2025. Mexico: Background and Key Issues in U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 4 Like the preceding government, the Sheinbaum administration reportedly has not moved to expel Russian diplomats whom U.S. officials identified in 2022 as spies conducting covert operations.15 On Venezuela, the Sheinbaum government opposed the U.S. capture of Venezuela’s Nicolás Maduro , including in sessions of the United Nations Security Council and the Organization of American States.16 U.S.-Mexican Relations and Issues for Congress U.S.-Mexican relations arguably have been more volatile during the second Trump Administration than dur ing President Trump’s first term . President Sheinbaum largely has sought to accommodate and privately negotiate with President Trump and his Cabinet rather than public ly challenge U.S. policies , with the exception of U.S. statements threatening unilateral U.S. military actions in Mexico . In December 2025 , President Trump threatened to impose a 5% tariff on Mexico for not meeting prescribed water deliveries to the United States agreed upon in the 1944 Water Treaty, which governs how the two countries share f lows of the Rio Grande and Colorado Rivers . After high-level talks, Mexico reportedly agreed to provide a specified level of water per year ; the tariffs have not been implemented .17 Presidents Trump and Sheinbaum met in person in December 2025 at a FIFA World Cup event in Washington, DC. Presidents Trump and Sheinbaum have spoken regularly by phone ; on January 29, 2026, they reportedly discussed the USMCA review.18 On February 4, 2026, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative announced expanded economic cooperation with a new U.S. -Mexico Action Plan on Critical Minerals.19 Security Cooperation In 2025, t he Trump Administration declared a national emergency on the U.S. southern border related to drug trafficking (and unauthorized migration), impose d tariffs on certain Mexican imports to compel the Mexican government to address those issues, and designated six Mexican drug cartels as Foreign Terrorist Organizations (FTOs) .20 The State Department reportedly has revoked visas of some Mexican politician s, many from MORENA, in some cases for alleged involvement in drug trafficking.21 The Trump Administration also has expanded the U.S. military presence at the southern border and issued a National Security Strategy and a National Defense 15 Maria Abi -Habib, “ The U.S. Gave Mexico a List of Russian Spies. Mexico Let Them Stay ,” New York Times , December 8, 2025. 16 CRS Insight IN12618, U.S. Capture of Venezuela’s Nicolás Maduro: Considerations for Congress ; Gobierno de México, “Mexico Condemns Military Intervention in Venezuela,” Press Release No. 001/2026, January 3, 2026. 17 U.S. Department of Agriculture, “ Statement by Secretary of State Marco Rubio and Secretary of Agriculture Brooke Rollins ,” February 3 , 202 6. See CRS In Focus IF12976, 1944 U.S. -Mexico Water Tre aty: Issues in the 119th Congress , by Charles V. Stern, Elena H. Humphreys, and Nicole T. Carter . 18 Alex