power should be implied from the aggregate of his powers under the Constitution. Particular reliance is placed on provisions in Article II which say that ‘the executive Power shall be vested in a President . . . ’; that ‘he shall t ake Care that the Laws be faithfully executed ’; and that he ‘shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States. ’”). 227 U.S. CONST . art. II, § 1 (“t he executive power shall be vested in a President of the United States of America .”). 228 U.S. CONST . art. II, § 3 (“[The President] s hall take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed .”). 229 Id. art. II, § 2, cl. 1 (“ The President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several States, w hen called into the actual Service of the United States .”). 230 Id. art. II, § 3 (“[The President] shall receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers.”). 231 Id. art. II, § 2, cl. 2 (“[The President] shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent of th e Senate, to make Treaties, provided two thirds of the Senators present concur .”). 232 Congressionally Mandated Notice Period for Withdrawing from the Open Skies Treaty, 44 Op. O.L.C. 184, 193‒95 (2020) . 233 See supra “Political Question Doctrine ”; “The Supreme Court’s Youngstown Framework for Separation of Powers Cases .” Separation of Powers and NATO Withdrawal Congressional Research Service 29 Those challenging a Section 1250A violation might highlight the Supreme Court ’s broad statements about foreign affairs authorities , which arguably support the idea that most foreign powers are shared because the Constitution assigns those authorities to the national government as a whole .234 Challeng ers also might emphasize that many Supreme Court precedent s that could be understood as characterizing presidential foreign affairs powers as broad did not involve questions of exclusive authority , but rather questions of whether the President could act in the absence of express congressional authorization.235 Additionally, challengers might maintain that if, as the executive branch maintains, treaty withdrawal is an instance of executing treaties as the “law of the land,”236 Section 1250A must also be understood as the law of the land pursuant to Congress’s treaty -implementing power, which has long been recognized by the Supreme Court.237 Challengers may also point out that, even when the Supreme Court determined that the President has exclusive authority to recognize foreign states in Zivotofsky II, the Court emphasized the narrowness of this power238 and cautioned that “it is essential the congressional role in foreign affairs be understood and respecte d.”239 In addition , challengers might emphasize that the 234 See, e.g. , Crosby v. Nat’l For. Trade Council, 530 U.S. 363, 381 (2000) (“ Congress ’s express command to the President to take the initiative for the United States among the international community invested him with the maximum authority