Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 18 adequately accounts for this kind of political risk in its strategic and operational planning. I f Congress identifies concerns with DOD’s approach, Congress could direct DOD to develop new plans, strategies, or reports to address these risks. Cost Sharing Since 1991, South Korea has offset the cost of stationing U.S. forces on the Korean Peninsula via so-called “Special Measures Agreements” (SMAs).97 U.S.-ROK SMAs signed since the late - 2000s generally have lasted five years. ROK payments —a combination of in -kind and cash contributions —fall into three categories: labor (salaries for South K oreans who work on U.S. bases); logistics; and construction (by ROK firms for U.S. facilities). A 2021 analysis from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that South Korea provided $3.3 billion cumulatively in both cash and in -kind financial sup port from 2016 through 2019.98 American domestic fiscal concerns largely prompted the first SMA in 1991.99 In the late 1980s, the United States experienced growing budget deficits, prompting calls for South Korea to pay more to support U.S. Forces Korea (U SFK), particularly since South Korea had emerged as a middle -income country. These calls coincided with a gradual reduction of U.S. troop levels on the Korean Peninsula. Some Members of Congress asserted that South Korea should offset more of the direct co sts incurred by USFK and take more responsibility for its own security (for example, see S. 1439 in the 101st Congress (1989 -1990)). U.S.-ROK SMAs contain “special measures” —or excep tions —related to Article V of the Status of Forces Agreement ( SOFA ), which entered into force in 1967 and provides a legal framework for how U.S. military personnel operate in South Korea. Article V stipulates that the United States will cover all costs fo r maintaining its military presence in the ROK, with the exception of costs associated with facilities.100 (The SOFA was concluded pursuant to Article IV of the U.S. -ROK Mutual Defense Treaty, which states that the ROK grants to the United States “the right to dispose United States land, air and sea forces in and about the territory of the Republic of Korea as determined by mutual agreement.”) Although U.S.-ROK burden -sharing talks historically have been contentious, they became particularly divisive during the first Trump Administration due to U.S. requests for steep increases in ROK contributions.101 President Trump reportedly asked South Korea to increase its contribution by roughly 400%.102 Amid an impasse , the two countries signed a one -year stop -gap SMA covering the 2019 calendar year that raised South Korea’s annual contribution by around 8%.103 After the two sides were unable to bridge their differences in subsequent negotiations over a long er-term SMA , about 4,500 South Koreans who worked on U.S. bases were furloughed after 97 U.S. Department of State, “ U.S. Security Cooperation with the Republic of Korea (ROK) ,” January 20, 2025. 98 U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO), BURDEN SHARING: Benefits and Costs Associated with the U.S.