is substantially similar to the Supervisory Mo difications for Appropriate Risk -Based Testing (SMART) Act ( H.R. 4437 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. Section 604. Tailored Regulatory Updates for Supervisory Testing Banks are generally subject to full -scope examinations once every 12 -month period. However, if a bank has total assets of less than $3 billion, is well -capitalized, and meets certain other conditions, the bank only faces full -scope exam inations once every 18 -month period. This section would increase the exemption threshold from $3 billion to $6 billion. This provision is substantially similar to the Tailored Regulatory Updates for Supervisory Testing (TRUST) Act ( H.R. 4478 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. 79 The term “well-managed ” is a function of each of the federal regulator’s supervisory procedures. The term “well- capitalized ” is generally defined in 12 U.S.C. §1831o. Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 22 Section 605. Credit Union Modernization Act Credit unions are nonprofit depository financial institutions that are owned and operated e ntirely by their members.80 Credit union boards are statutorily required to hold board meetings at least once a month.81 This section would amend the F ederal Credit Union Act of 1934 to reduce the mandatory meeting frequency for boards of directors of wel l-capitalized credit unions from monthly to at least six times per year and at least once per quarter. Newly formed credit unions must meet at least monthly for the first five years of their existence. Undercapitalized credit unions must still meet no less than once a month. This section is substantially similar to the Credit Union Board Modernization Act ( H.R. 975 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. Section 6 06. Systemic Risk Authority Transparency When a bank fails, it does not enter the bankruptcy process like other businesses. Instead, it is taken into receivership by the F DIC, which takes control of the bank and resolves it through an administrative proces s designed to select the least costly resolution (LCR) option. Under 12 U.S.C. §1823, the FDIC must resolve a failed (insolvent) bank in a manner that is least costly to the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF)82 unless the systemic risk exception is invoked. For this exception to be used, certain conditions must be met:83 (1) The Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the President and upon a written recommendation of at least two -thirds of the boards of the F DIC and Fed, determines LCR “would have serious adverse effects on economic conditions or financial stability ” and the FDIC ’s actions would avoid or mitigate those effects. (2) Any loss to the FDIC must be repaid through a special assessment on banks by th e FDIC. In levying this assessment, the FDIC need not follow normal deposit insurance assessment rates and may consider who benefited from the action and the effects on the banking industry (as