available for unlicensed use and , within eight years of enactment, to make available any spectrum that is not auctioned and available (e.g., licenses in the FCC inventory). Among other things, the bill would have required that NTIA and the FCC report to Congress on their progress and prop osed changes to the SRF to allow funds to be used for state -of-the-art systems. Spectrum and National Security Act of 2024 (S. 4207) The Spectrum and National Security Act of 2024 ( S. 4207 ) was a comprehensive spectrum bill that would have , among other things, reinstated the FCC’s general auction authority through September 30, 2029 . In addition, the bill would ha ve • provided funding through proceeds from spectrum auctions to establish a national testbed for dynamic spectrum sharing ; • developed regional tec hnology hubs ; • mandated increased coordination between federal spectrum management agencies and established a spectrum dispute resolution process ; 19 Middle mile infrastruc ture is defined at 47 U.S.C. §1741 (a)(9) as “any broadband infrastructure that does not connect directly to an end -user location, including an anchor institution ” and includes such things as leased dark fiber, undersea cables, transport connectivity to dat a centers, and radio tower access. For more information on Next Generation 911, see CRS Report R48015, Funding the Transition to Next Generation 911 (NG911): Considerations for Congress , by Colby Leigh Pech tol. 20 In S. 3909 , “the term ‘full-power commercial licensed use cases ’ means flexible use wireless broadband services with base station power levels sufficient for high -power, hig h-density, and wide -area commercial mobile services, consistent with the service rules under part 27 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations , or any successor regulations .” History of the FCC’s Spectrum Auction Authority: 1993 -2025 Congressional Research Service 9 • created a spectrum pipeline that included feasibility studies of the 7.125 -8.5 GHz and 37 GHz bands a nd provided funding for such st udies; • required completion of an auction of the 12.7-13.25 GHz band by December 30, 2027; and • creat ed a Spectrum Auction Trust Fund in the U.S. Treasury to hold the proceeds from certain auctions , which were to be used for deficit reduction, relocation o r sharing costs for incumbent users affected by spectrum reallocation, and fund ing certain programs in the act (e.g., rip -and-replace program to replace China -based equipment in U.S. networks , and Next Generation 911 ). Other Legislation Related to Spectrum Auction Authority in the 118th Congress As none of the short -term bills or the comprehensive bills described above passed during the 118th Congress , the FCC’s general auction authority remained lapsed after it expired on March 9, 2023. This meant that no new spectrum was made available through auctions during the 118th Congress. While telecommunication companies could not obtain new spectrum through FCC auctions, they continued to acquire spectrum through the secondary market.21 Some Members propos ed spectrum -related bills