Court determined that the passport statute required the Secretary of State to “directly contradict[]” the President’s recognition decision,207 the Court held 198 U.S. CONST . art. II, § 3. 199 Id. art. II, § 2, cl. 2. 200 Id. 201 Zivotofsky II , 576 U.S. at 13 –14. 202 Id. at 14. 203 See id. at 14 –15 (“ Put simply, the Nation must have a single policy regarding which governments are legitimate in the eyes of the United States and which are not. Foreign countries need to know, before entering into diplomatic relations or commerce with the United States, whether their ambassadors will be received; whether their officials will be immune from suit in federal court; and whether they may initiate lawsuits here to vindicate their rights. These assurances cannot be equivocal. ”). 204 See id. at 14 –15. The Court explained that “[n]o single precedent resolves the question whether th e President has exclusive recognition authority ”: In part that is because, until today, the political branches have resolved their disputes over questions of recognition. The relevant cases, though providing important instruction, address the division of recognition power between the Federal Government and the States —not between the President and Congress. Id. at 17. Although no case had directly addressed whether the recognition power was exclusive to the Presidency, the Court concluded that several case s in which the Court discussed the recognition power “illustrate [that] the Court has long considered recognition to be the exclusive prerogative of the Executive.” Id. at 19. 205 See id. at 23 –28 (“The weight of historical evidence indicates Congress has accepted that the power to recognize foreign states and governments and their territorial bounds is exclusive to the Presidency. ”). 206 See id. at 28. Justice Scalia, joined by Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Alito, questioned this holding, a rguing that, while “I a gree that the Constitution empowers the President to extend recognition on behalf of the United States, but I find it a much harder question whether it makes that power exclusive .” Id. at 70 (Scalia, J., dissenting). 207 The Court dete rmined without much elaboration that the decision not to recognize any state’s sovereignty over Jerusalem is part of the President’s exclusive recognition power and that the State Department’s recording of a U.S. citizen born in Jerusalem as “Israel” would contradict that decision. See id. at 5 (stating that the Court had two questions before it: “ whether the President has the exclusive power to grant formal recognition to a foreign sovereign ,” and, “ if he has that power , . . . whether Congress can command the President and his Secretary of State to issue a formal statement that contradicts the earlier recognition ”). Chief Justice Roberts and Justices Alito and Scalia disagreed with those conclusions. See id. at 64 , 66 (Roberts, C.J., dissenting) (“[T] he sta tute at issue does not implicate recognition . . . . Whatever recognition power the President may