Still Faces Fundamental Challenges , GAO -23-105813, March 2023, p. 4, https://www.gao.gov/ products/ gao-23-105813 . Notes: The orange circles represent protons; the blue circles represent neutrons. When deuterium and tritium fuse together the result is a helium -4 atom (two protons, two neutrons, and two electrons [not shown]), along with the release of a neutron and energy. “ Deuterium is a stable isotope of hydrogen, which, unlike ‘normal ’ hydrogen atoms, or protium, also contains a neutron. The isotope deuterium has one proton, one neutron and one electron ” (Puja Daya , “What Is Deuterium? ,” International Atomic Energy Agency, January 13, 2023, https://www.iaea.org/ newscenter/ news/ what-is-deuterium ). Tritium “is a hydrogen atom that has two neutrons in the nucleus and one proton ” (Environmental Protection Agency, “ Radionuclide Basics: Tritium ,” January 22, 2026, https://www.epa.gov/ radiation/ radionuclide -basics -tritium ). Fusion Technolog y Approache s A key challenge for maintaining a fusion reaction is confining the fuel . The plasma fuel for the reaction must be confined to keep it hot and dense so the reaction can continue. The plasma, which can reach temperatures up to 150 million degrees , requires specialized containment devices that can withstand such high temperatures and pressures. Different designs and technologies are being explored to achieve commercial fusion energy.10 Two main strategies have been developed for fusion energy: magnetic confinement and inertial confinement , each of which can have different design concepts (examples discussed below) . One analysis showed that global private investment has pursued magnetic confinement designs at a rate nearly 10 times greater than i t has pursued inertial confinement and other concepts.11 10 For examples and schematical drawings of different types of fusion reactor designs being developed around the world , see IAEA, IAEA World Fusion Outlook 2025 , 2025, pp. 16 -31, https://www.iaea.org/ publications/ 15935/ iaea- world -fusion -outlook -2025 . 11 Fusion for Energy, Global Investment in the Private Fusion Sector , 2nd ed. (2025 ), p. 16, https://fusionforenergy.europa.eu/ wp-content/ uploads/ 2025/ 11/F4E_Observatory_2025_digital.pdf . Toward Commercial Fusion Energy: Considerations for Congress Congressional Research Service 4 Magnetic Confinement In magnetic confinement, the plasma is held in place using magnetic fields. This is the most common choice both for current research reactors and for some planned power plant de signs. A widely used configuration known as a tokamak uses powerful magnets to confine the plasma within a toroidal (doughnut -shaped) reaction vessel to create the conditions for fusion (see Figure 2). An electric field drives a current through the plasma , which generates a poloidal magnetic field that bends the plasma current into a circle. The other magnetic field goes around the length of the doughnut.12 The combination of these two fields keep s the plasma away from the walls of the vessel to prevent damage to the walls and unintended cooling of the plasma.13 A spherical tokamak has a more rounded shape (i.e., a cored apple) than the toroidal tokamak . It inherits the basic stability and confinement properties of