Agreement and facilitates daily military -to- military contacts at the De -Militarized Zone (DMZ) • If Armistice is breached , would coordinate, command, and control non -U.S./non-ROK international coalition contributions to support the ROK Combined Forces Command • Bilateral U.S./ROK command • Established in November 1978 • Commander: four-star U.S. Army general; Deputy commander: four-star ROK Army general • Designated theater -level command for USFK, ROK, and UN forces if hostilities resumed • Forces assigned temporarily during combined exercises and in the event the CFC is activated shoul d hostilities on the peninsula resume Source: CRS, based on information from U.S. Forces Korea and United Nations Command . U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 9 Figure 3. Map of USFK, UNC, and CFC Bases Source: CRS, using data from Esri. Notes: The Joint Security Area (JSA) is located at the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ); United Nations Command bases in Japan are co-located on U.S. Forces Japan ( USFJ) facilities and referred to as “UN C-Rear.” South Korea ’s Defense Industry and Purchases of U.S. Weapon Systems As of 2024, South Korea had the world’s 11th-largest military budget based on total monetary expenditures , spending roughly $47.6 billion or 2.6% of its gross domestic product (GDP).45 South Korea has a mature and increasingly sophisticated defense industr y and was the 8th-largest defense exporter in 2023 , measured as a share of the world’s defense exports .46 Internationally, South Korean firms compete in the aerospace, shipbuilding, and armored vehicles industries, among others.47 One source’s “Top 100” de fense companies ranking for 202 5 featured three South Korean defense companies —Hanwha, LIG Nex1, and Hyundai Rotem .48 South Korea’s latest program —Defense Innovation 4.0, announced in March 2023 —aims to utilize advanced technologies such as artificial intelligence and unmanned systems to develop a more effective military less reliant on foreign sources of defense equipme nt. Defense Innovation 4.0 takes into account South Korea’s low birth rate and declining population, which may impact future ROK 45 Xiao Liang et al., “Trends in World Military Expenditure, 2024,” Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, April 2025. 46 U.S. Department of Commerce, “South Korea Country Commercial Guide: Defense Industry Equipment,” December 5, 2023, https://www.trade.gov/ country -commercial -guides/ south -korea -defense -industry -equipment . 47 Hunter Slingbaum and Kaitlyn King , “Will South Korea’s Defense Industry Boom Change U.S. -ROK Military Relations? ” Stimson Center, August 19, 2024, https://www.stimson.org/ 2024/ will-south -koreas -defense -industry - boom -change -u-s-rok-military -relations/ . 48 “Top 100 for 202 5,” Defense News , accessed March 5, 2026 , https://people.defensenews.com/ top-100/. U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 10 troop strength .49 President Lee has pledged to mak e South Korea the world’s fourth -largest defense industry by increasing domes tic production capacity and export s through 2030. His plan includes l owering barriers to entry for defense technology innovators and increased government investments in aerospace research and development.50 South Korea is a major purchaser of