brought by Members of Congress. See id. at 824 n.8. 153 Id. at 829 (“W e attach some importance to the fact that [they] have not been authorized to represent their respective Houses of Congress in this action, and indeed both Houses actively oppose their suit .”). 154 Cf. Ariz. State Legislature v. Ariz. Indep. Redistricting Comm’n, 576 U.S. 787, 802−03 (2015) (in holding that the (continued...) Separation of Powers and NATO Withdrawal Congressional Research Service 20 authorized the suit , the Court has reasoned, the institutional plaintiff may be able to establish standing by showing that the challenged action would nullify a vote by the entire legislative body.155 Accordingly, as Section 1250A prohibits the President from withdraw ing from the North Atlantic Treaty without approval by two -thirds of the Senate or an act of Congress, if Congress or one of its chambers authorized suit to be brought on its behalf , a court may conclude that an injury had been alleged sufficient to establ ish standing because the alleged unlawful action nullified the chamber’s or Congress’s vote on whether the United States should withdraw from the treaty . An early version of 1250A that passed in the Senate would have created a process to authorize suit to be brought on behalf of the Senate or House of Representatives to enforce the law’s congressional approval requirements,156 but final Section 1250A language agreed to in conference did not contain this provision .157 While the Supreme Court has not expressly held that authorization is necessary, the Court’s standing jurisprudence suggest s that such authorization increases the likelihood of establishing congressional standing in cases, such as a challenge by a congressional plaintiff to a Section 1250A violation, that courts may view as alleging an institutional injury. Standing Under Other NATO -Related Statutes Outside the context of congressional standing, if a private plaintiff were to challenge unilateral withdrawal from the North Atlantic Treaty, legislation other than Section 1250A might affect a court’s standing analysis . Numerous laws reference or relate to NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty, or subsidiary international agreements concluded under the NATO rubric ,158 and th ese laws could be relevant to the standing analysis in a private plaintiff’s case . NATO -Related Legislation NATO -related legislation enacted in domestic law includes the following : • appropriations for U.S. contributions to NATO’s common budget;159 Arizona Legislature had standing to sue, explaining that the body “is an institutional plaintiff asserting an institutional injury, and it commenced the action after authorizing votes in both of its chambers”). 155 Id. at 804 (quoting Raines , 521 U.S. at 823−24). 156 Although the text was later removed, the version of Section 1250A that passed in the Senate contained a section providing the following : By adoption of a resolution of the Senate or the House of Representatives, respectively, the Senate Legal Counsel or the General Counsel to the House of Representatives may be authorized to initiate, or intervene in, in the name of the Senate