does not speak directly to U.S. recognition of foreign states . Some could argue that this difference suggests that the Supreme Court ’s reasoning in Zivotofs ky II for acknowledging the President’s exclusive recognition power does not apply to the treaty withdrawal context . Given that claims of exclusive presidential authority must be “scrutinized with caution,”223 it might be contended that the existence of a c ongressional role in treaty entry weighs against an interpretation of the Constitution that excludes Congress from participation in treaty withdrawal. The executive branch , for its part, might contend that the Constitution’s silence on treaty withdrawal is not determinative because the Supreme Court has been willing to recognize other exclusive presidential powers that are not expressly granted in the Constitution .224 These exclusive president ial powers include not only the recognition power , but also the power to remove executive officers whose appointment, like treaty entry, require s Senate approval .225 The executive branch might further argue, as it has in the past in support of the President’s unilateral autho rity in foreign affairs, that the President has inherent Article II power based on the “combined force” of several Article II provisions,226 including the vesting of “[t]he executive power” in the President,227 the Take Care Clause,228 the Commander in Chief Clause,229 the Reception Clause,230 and the Treaty Clause.231 The OLC invoke d that line of reasoning in its 2020 opinion in support of its argument that the President has exclusive authority to withdraw from treaties: “Taken together, these provisions [of Article II] grant the President the authority and discretion to implement a treaty by noti fying foreign powers of the United States’ exercise of its right to withdraw from the treaty .”232 Judicial Precedent As discussed , there is no directly controlling precedent regarding the distribution of treaty - withdrawal authority .233 Both sides to a case r egarding a Section 1250A violation may emphasize aspects of potentially relevant cases that could support their respective position and distinguish those aspects that might be understood as unfavorable to them . 223 See supra note 218 and accompanying text. 224 See su pra notes 55‒56 and accompanying text. 225 See supra notes 55‒56 and accompanying text. 226 Brief for Petitioner at 6‒15, 92, Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U.S. 579 (1952 ) (No. 745) (arguing that “Presidential power to act on a particu lar occasion may derive from . . . the combined force of . . . several provisions of Article II”); see also Youngstown , 343 U.S. at 587 (“[The government does] not claim [] that express constitutional language grants this power to the President. The content ion is that presidential power should be implied from the aggregate of his powers under the Constitution. Particular reliance is placed on provisions in Article II which say that ‘the executive Power shall be vested in a President . . . ’; that ‘he shall t ake Care that the Laws be faithfully executed