a responsible entity to assume responsibility for the environmental review. 30 These projects are regulated by 24 C.F.R. Part 58, and are commonly referred to as Part 58 projects. When program legislation does not permit responsible entities to assume responsibility —such as for Federal Housing Authority (FHA ) housing programs, Section 202 housing projects, and Section 811 housing projects —HUD is responsible for the enviro nmental review. These projects are regulated by 24 C.F.R. Part 50, and are commonly referred to as Part 50 projects.31 Whether HUD or a responsible entity is accountable for the environmental review is specified in the Notice of Funding Availability, progr am regulations, or legislation relevant to the project.32 In addition to the changes described above, t his section would allow the HUD Secretary to designate “assistance administered by the Secretary” as a “ special project ” for the purposes of NEPA and oth er provisions of law that further the purposes of NEPA.33 Special projects are statutorily subject to environmental review under 42 U.S.C. §3547, but responsibility for the environmental review for special projects may be assumed by a responsible entity un der 24 26 “Infill project ” is defined in this section as a project that occurs within the geographic limits of a municipality, is adequately served by existing utilities and public services as required under applicable law, is located on a site of previously d isturbed land of not more than five acres and substantially surrounded by residential or commercial development, will repurpose a vacant or underutilized parcel of land or a dilapidated or abandoned structure, and will serve a residential or commercial pur pose. 27 HUD’s current CENST activities are listed in 24 C.F.R. §§50.19 or 58.35(b). Note that there are slight differences in the wording used to describe these activities between the text of this section and the current section of the C.F.R. 28 Responsible entiti es are exempted from NEPA compliance and a review or compliance determination under 24 C.F.R. §58.5 ; however , they are still subject to additional HUD requirements under 24 C.F.R. §58.6. Further, Section 208(b)(1)(A) refers specifically to an exemption for responsible entities under 24 C.F.R. §58.34. Part 50 projects where HUD is undertaking similar actions are not similarly exempted by S. 2651 . 29 The eighth activity that would be newly exempted from NEPA review by this section is “Emergency homeowner or renter assistance for HVAC, hot water heaters, and other necessar y uses of existing utilities required under applicable law.” There are slight differences in the wording used to describe these activities between the text of this section and the current section of the C.F.R. 30 For a list of activities and projects where specific statutory authority exists for recipients or other responsible entities to assume environmental responsibilities, see 24 C.F.R. §58.1(b). 31 24 C.F.R. §50.2(a) defines “Project” for the purposes of Part 50 as “an activity, or a group of integrally -related activities, undertaken directly by HUD or proposed for HUD assistance