ttee (FESAC), to Dr. Harriet Kung, Acting Director, Office of Science, DOE, May 10, 2024, https://www.osti.gov/ servlets/ purl/ 2476326 . 72 ITER, “ FAQs ,” https://www.iter.org/ faqs. Dollar values were converted from euros. 73 ITER, “New Baseline to Prioritize Robust Start to Exploitation,” press release, July 3, 2024, https://www.iter.org/ node/ 20687/ new-baseline -prioritize -robust -start-exploitation . 74 Daniel Clery, “Giant Fusion Project in Big Trouble, ” Science , vol. 385, no. 6704 (2024), pp. 10 -11. Toward Commercial Fusion Energy: Considerations for Congress Congressional Research Service 17 DOE Weapons Programs Research Related to Fusion DOE conducts R&D related to fusion under its weapons activities program operated by the National Nuclear Security Administration. The Inertial Confine ment Fusion (ICF) Program, previously known as the Inertial Confinement Fusion Ignition and High Yield Campaign , is focused on the use of fusion science to improve stewardship of the U.S. nuclear weapons stockpile. In FY2025, the budget for ICF was $683 mi llion, with a majority of that funding going to the DOE Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (see Figure 7). NSF’s Fusion R&D Programs and Funding NSF’s Plasma Physics program s upports research in fundamental plasma physics , the focus of which is “ to generate an understanding of the fundamental pr inciples governing the physical behavior of a plasma via collective interactions of large ensembles of free charged particles, as well as to improve the basic understanding of the plasma state as needed for other areas of science and engineering. ”75 This research, according to NSF, is “ bringing society closer to conquering one of its biggest science and engineering challenges ,”76 which could enable R&D toward commercialized fusion energy . A search of grants funded within the Plasma Physics program re vealed 121 projects from August 2016 through December 2025 with total anticipated funding of $77.4 million .77 Other programs within NSF may also support fusion -energy -related research. Examples of NSF -Sponsored Research Facilities Prominent NSF -sponsored research facilities are located at the University of California , Los Angeles (UCLA) ; Florida State University ; the University of Florida ; and the University of Michigan. The UCLA Basic Plasma Science Facility is sponsored by both NSF and DOE and contains the Large Plasma Device, which enables researchers to study magnetized plasma and how plasmas might behave in a fusion reactor with magnetic confinement.78 The National High Magnetic Field Laboratory (MagLab) is jointly funded by NSF and the stat e of Florida. It claims to be the largest and highest -powered magnet lab in the world. As a user facility, MagLab provides research opportunities to scientists and engineers from universities, national labs, and industry investigating the use of magnets in producing fusion energy.79 The NSF Zettawatt -Equivalent Ultrashort Pulse Laser System (NSF ZEUS) is an NSF -funded user facility located at the University of Michigan. According to NSF, NSF ZEUS is the highest - 75 National Science Foundation (NSF), “Plasma Physics ,” 2025, https://www.nsf.gov/ funding/ opportunities/ plasma - physics . 76 Ariela