) to exempt USDA rural housing projects that meet the definition of “infill housing” from any study or report on the environmental effects of such assistance . The ROAD to Housing Act contains no such provision. Section 106. Multifamily Loan Limits FHA administers a number of programs to insure mortgages for the construction, acquisition, rehabilitation, or refinancing of multifamily apartment buildings.36 These programs are subject to mortgage limits set in respective program statutes. The underlying pr ogram statutes allow HUD to increase the maximum mortgage amounts in high -cost areas, subject to certain limits.37 Separately, the law directs HUD to adjust certain multifamily mortgage limits for inflation each year, using the percentage change in the Con sumer Price Index for All Urban 34 See 24 C.F.R. §58.2(7) for a definition of “responsible entity.” 35 In the reported version of the bill, this section would have additionally e stablish ed an advisory working group comprising various stakeholders to inform the MOU ; that text was not included in the version that passed the House . 36 For descriptions of different FHA multifamily mortgage insurance programs, see https://www.hud.gov/ hud-partners/ multifamily -programs . 37 For example, see FHA Mortgagee Letter 2025 -11, Annual Revisions to Base City High -Cost Percentage and High - Cost Areas Annual Indexing of MAP Guide ’s Substantial Rehabilitation and Large Loan Risk Mitigation Thresholds , April 14, 2025, identifying high -cost areas where projects could qualify for such exceptions. Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 8 Consumers (CPI –U).38 Some observers have argued that , despite these inflation adjustments and exceptions for high -cost areas, the mortgage limits have not kept up with the costs of developing multifamily housing in many areas.39 Past HUD budget justifications have called for adjustments to the loan limits.40 This section would increase the multifamily loan limits for several FHA multifamily programs. It would also require HUD to use the Census Bureau ’s Price Deflator Ind ex of Multifamily Residential Units Under Construction as the index used to calculate the annual inflation adjustment rather than the CPI -U. This section is similar to the Housing Affordability Act ( S. 1527 /H.R. 6132 ). The ROAD to Housing Act also includes a section that addresses the FHA multifamily loan limits, but it does so differently. Section 107. GAO St udy on Workforce Housing41 Congress has demonstrated interest in federal programs that would support workforce housing . Workforce housing is generally understood to be housing that is affordable and available for a population distinct from either low -incom e or upper -income households, but the term is not defined in federal statute or regulation.42 The federal government has historically targeted limited housing resources to low -income households, although some existing federal housing programs are available to households with earnings above the low -income threshold. This section would require GAO to conduct a study and submit a report to Congress regarding housing affordability for middle -income households, the eligibility of middle -income households