Mexico: Background and Key Issues in U.S. Relations Updated February 23, 2026 Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov R48859 Congressional Research Service SUMMARY Mexico: Background and Key Issu es in U.S. Relations Mexico, the 10th most populous country and 13th largest economy in the world, is bound to the United States by geography and deep economic, cultural, and historical ties. In addition to sharing a nearly 2,000 -mile land border, Mexico was the top U.S. trade partner in goods in 2025 and the second -largest oil supplier , behind C anada . Drug cartels, six of which the Trump Administration has designated terrorist organizations, have endangered the lives of people, including U.S. citizens, in parts of Mexico. U.S. -Mexico ties and issues, including addressing the production and trafficking of fentanyl from Mexico, have prompted legislative ac tivity and oversight interest in the 119th Congress. Mexico has undergone significant change under successive National Regeneration Movement (MORENA) presidencies . The party’s founder, former President Andrés Manuel López Obrador (2018 -2024), concentrated power in the presidency and focused government efforts on raising wages and increasing social programs . Observers criticized López Obrador for trying to weaken autonomous institutions and the judiciary and for increasing military involvement in public secu rity. In October 2024, President Claudia Sheinbaum took office for a six -year term. Sheinbaum, a former head of government of Mexico City (2018 -2023), is Mexico’s first female president and a close ally of López Obrador. She has benefitted from MORENA and its allies’ two -thirds majorities in both chambers of the legislature seated in September 2024. In her first year , Sheinbaum shepherded 22 constitutional reforms through congress, many of which were proposed by López Obrador. Although President Sheinbaum has continu ed aspects of López Obrador’s policies, she has adopted a more aggressive public security policy and appear s to have partially align ed her trade policy with that of the United States by backing legislation that impos ed tariffs on imports from the People’s Republic of China and other countries with which Mexico does not have a free - trade agreement . Some observers are concerned that MORENA has increased control of the federal, state, and local governments just over a de cade since its founding as a party. U.S. Policy U.S.-Mexican relations have been tested as the Sheinbaum administration has sought to maintain Mexico’s sovereignty while addressing U.S. concerns on various issues. Since February 2025, President Trump has used the imposition or threat of tariffs to spur the Mexican government into action on migration control, drug trafficking , and Rio Grande water deliveries to the United States . President Trump has repeatedly threa tened unilateral U.S. military intervention in Mexico to combat drug cartels, which could derail cooperation. A successful joint review of the U.S. -Mexico -Canada Agreement (USMCA) — through which most Mexican exports enter ed the United States duty -free in 20 24—is a top priority for Mexico . The 119th Congress has considered legislation and conducted oversight on varied