War on the Rocks ; “Not a Sovereignty Issue: Understanding the Transition of Military Operational Control between the United States and South Korea ,” Institute for Security and Development Policy (ISP), April 2021, https://www.isdp.eu/ publication/ not-a-sovereignty -issue -understanding -the-transition -of- military -operational -control -between -the-united -states -and-south -korea/ . 128 Anna J. Park, “ Is Korea Ready for OPCON transfer? ” The Korea Times , Marc h 6, 2025. U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 23 bases across South Korea and Japan.129 The UNC -Rear bases in Japan would be critical hubs to facilitate the flow of non -U.S./non -ROK international forces in a conflict. Extended Deterrence on the Korean Penin sula and South Korea’s Nuclear Armament Debate130 The U.S. -ROK Mutual Defense Treaty provides extended deterrence —the ability and commitment of the United States to deter attack against South Korea, including nuclear attack. Extended deterrence may include a U.S. nuclear response and is sometimes referred to as the “nuclear umbrella.” ROK concerns around extended deterrence largely stem from U.S. ambiguity in official statements —that is, the United States has neither publicly nor explicitly committed to a nuclear , rather than conventional , response against North Korea in a conflict if North Korea (officially the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, or DPRK) used nuclear weapons against South Korea. The U.S. 2022 Nuclear Posture Review (NPR) states , “Any nuc lear attack by North Korea against the United States or its Allies and partners is unacceptable and will result in the end of that regime.”131 The NPR also states that “as long as Allies and partners face nuclear threats, extended nuclear deterrence will re main a pillar of regional security architectures .”132 The NPR says this system is based on “a lly and partner confidence that the United States has the will and capability to meet its security commitments.” The United States extends nuclear deterrence to its allies through missile defenses, forward -deployed nuclear weapons, and U.S.-based aircraft capable of conventional or nuclear missions that could be deployed in a crisis. Extended deterrence also includes consultations, joint exercises and planning, and U .S. force presence.133 Since the early 2000s, multiple North Korean nuclear weapon and missile tests have sharpened North Korea’s threat to South Korea. Advancing DPRK capabilities, including its potential ability to reach the continental United States wit h inter -continental ballistic missiles (ICBMs), have increased uncertainty in the ROK about the credibility of U.S. security guarantees and heightened a sense of vulnerability to North Korean threats.134 In response to South Korean concerns, in July 2016 , the U.S. and South Korean governments agreed to deploy a Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) battery to U.S. Forces Korea. The THAAD battery is stationed at a South Korean military base in Seongju, about 130 miles south of Seoul.135 A Department of Defense (also now Department of War) press release said the deployment’ s purpose was to “ensure the security of South Korea and that of its