federal investments from more basic R&D on fusion toward commercialization efforts. Through its oversight authorities, Congress may evaluate whether the DOE’s fusion efforts are effectively making pr ogress toward commercialization , how other federal investments (e.g. , NSF’s fusion R&D programs ) are contributing toward fusion energy, and whether additional appropriations , priority setting, or both would be required to enable the U nited States to be the first country to achieve commercially viable fusion. U.S. Participation in ITER Congress may wish to examine the role of continued U.S. investment and participation in ITER and how it relates to DOE’s strateg ic plan and S&T roadmap , including whether levels of funding are appropriate compared with the overall budget for FES . Congress may choose to explore w hat options to consider if there are additional ITER project delays and how this could impact the United States ’ fusion R&D strat egy given the current allocations of the FES budget toward ITER . Through its appropriations and oversight authorities, Congress could examine how DOE implements its S&T roadmap and what impacts potential scientific and engineering advances from the academ ic and private fusion industry have on ITER’s R&D goals and timelines .134 For example, t o what extent , if any, should these potential advances change U.S. participation in ITER? Congress may also choose to investigate the state of fusion energy R&D , the fus ion energy industry in other nations , and to what extent, if any, U.S. participation in ITER provide s a strategic advantage to future economic competitiveness for the United States and for private U.S. companies . Public Engagement Pertaining to Commercial Fusion Energy As part of its study, documented in Fusion Energy: Potential ly Transformative Technology Still Faces Fundamental Challenges , GAO held three focus groups in the U nited States regarding fusion energy. According to GAO, participants in the focus group said they “ would want sufficient regulatory oversight before they would be comfortable with fusion energy plants in their communities .” Individual participants raised concerns abou t radioactivity and living in proximity to a fusion plant. These proximity concerns , however , were not specific to fusion energy plants and included coal -burning plants. Other issues raised by participants included environmental impacts (both positive and negative), costs associated with developing fusion energy, and how fusion energy would impact their lives , including jobs and whether a power plant would “affect the aesthetics of their community .” Participants also said they would want month effort to align government, academia, and industry around a shared vision for the deployment of fusion energy to secure America’s position in the energy transition. ” Special Competitive Studies Project, “ Commission on the Scaling of Fusion Energy ,” https://www.scsp.ai/ fusion/ . 132 Commission on the Scaling of Fusion Energy, Fusion Power: Enabling 21st Century American Dominance , 2025, p. 5, https://fusion.scsp.ai/ posts/ fusion -power -enabling -21st-century -american -dominance . 133 Commission on the Scaling of Fusion Energy, Fusion Power: