allies maintain a rotational U.S. military presence of roughly 2,500 Marines at several military sites owned and operated by Australia, including in Darwin.18 Under USFPI, the allies are collaborating on enhanced space cooperation, and both U.S. Cyber Command and U.S. Space Command have cooperative agreements with their ADF counterpa rts.19 U.S.-Australia defense relations encompass several industrial and technology initiatives aimed at developing allied defense capabilities. According to congressional notifications, between 2015 and 2025, Australia was the sixth -largest purchaser of U.S. def ense equipment through the Foreign Military Sales program.20 The United States is assisting with development of Australia’s Guided Weapons and Explosive Ordnance (GWEO) initiative, which aims to strengthen Australia’s munition and missile stockpiles and do mestically manufacture guided weapons while also supplementing Australia’s international partners’ supply chains through technical assistance, manufacturing support, and access to global supply chains.21 Australia participates in the Partnership for Indo -Pacific Industrial Resilience (PIPIR), and Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth announced in June 2025 that one of two PIPIR “marquee projects” will create a regional sustainment hub for the P -8 AN/APY -10 radar system in Australia ,22 the first outside of the continental United States, which the Department of Defense (DOD) says will reduce reliance on 13 White House, National Security Strategy of the United States of America , November 2025, pp. 21, 22, 24. 14 U.S. Navy, “US, Australia, and UK Forces Conduct Joint Combined Operations,” press release, February 11, 2025, https://www .cpf.navy.mil/ Newsroom/ News/ Article/ 4062934/ us-australia -and-uk-forces -conduct -joint-combined - operations/ . 15 Seth Robson, “Dark Eagle Hypersonic Missile System Makes Overseas Debut During Talisman Sabre,” Stars and Stripes , August 4, 2025. 16 Anna A hronheim, “US Deploys ‘Dark Eagle’ Hypersonic Missiles to Australia in Strategic Move Against China,” Jerusalem Post , August 17, 2025. 17 Australian Department of Defense, United States Force Posture Initiative. 18 For more information, see CRS Report R47589 , U.S. Defense Infrastructure in the Indo -Pacific: Background and Issues for Congress , by Luke A. Nicastro . For follow up, congressional staff may conta ct Jared Tupuola. 19 U.S. Space Command, “USSPACECOM and Australian Defence Space Command Sign Enhanced Space Cooperation MOU,” press release, April 20, 2023. 20 CRS analysis of Defense Security Cooperation Agency’s Major Arms Sales notifications, https://www.dsca.mil/ Press -Media/ Major -Arms -Sales . 21 Australian Department of Defense, Guided Weapons and Explosive Ordnance Enterprise. 22 The Department of Defense (DOD) and Secretary of Defense are using secondary “Department of War (DOW) ” and “Secretary of War” designation under Executive Order 14347, dated September 5, 2025. U.S.-Australia Relations: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 4 U.S.-based repair capa bility and capacity and enhance operational flexibility .23 In June 2025, Australia and the United States signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) establishing a new cooperative program for Precision Strike Missile production, sustainment, and follow -on development, the first agreement of its kind for DOD.24 The Trump Administration’s National Defense Strategy does not explicitly reference Australia, but it does state, amongst other