CRS Report R42734, Income Eligibility and Rent in HUD Rental Assistance Pro grams: Frequently Asked Questions , by Libby Perl and Maggie McCarty . 68 42 U.S.C. §1437a(b)(5) and 24 C.F.R. §5.611. 69 The reported version of the bill included two additional provisions: it would have exclude d VA service -connected disability benefits from income for the purposes of assistance funded by Community Development Block Grants and require d GAO to issue a report on the treatment of VA service -connected disability payments across HUD programs. Both of these provisions were enacted into law on January 20, 2026 , by the Disabled Veterans Housing Support Act , P.L. 119 -70. 70 The URLA is Freddie Mac form 65 and Fannie Mae form 1003. The URLA was initially published in regulations at 12 C.F.R. Part 202, Appendix B. For the most recent version of it as of the cover date of this report, see https://singlefamily.fanniemae.com/ media/ 7896/ display , accessed January 13, 2026. Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 17 This section is similar to the HUD -USDA -V A Interagency Coordination Act ( S. 1695 ) and a provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. Section 404. Family Self -Sufficiency Escrow Expansion Pilot Program The Family Self -Sufficiency (FSS) program —originally authorized in 1992 —was designed to reduce the implicit tax on new earnings associated with federal rental assistance programs that charge income -based rents. Families participating in FSS develop five -year self -sufficiency plans, with the assistance of an FSS casewor ker. Over the course of that five -year period, any increases in rent the family must pay that are attributable to increased earnings are deposited in an interest - bearing escrow account for the family. Upon successful completion of the program, the family receives the escrowed funds (interim withdrawals are permissible for eligible activities). The program was originally made available only to families receiving HCVs, but it was later expanded to tenants in other forms of assisted housing. Participation in F SS is optional for both PHAs and owners, as well as tenants. To date, d emand has exceed ed available funding. PHAs and landlords who wish to participate must apply for limited FSS caseworker funding from HUD. In some cases, there are waitlists for families at participating PHAs and properties. This section would crea te a new seven -year Escrow Expansion Pilot within FSS that would allow up to 5,000 families to participate in a streamlined versio n of FSS featuring only the escrow account component of the progr am, without the caseworker and self -sufficiency plan requirements.71 This section is nearly identical to the Helping More Families Save Act of 2026 ( H.R. 4385 /S. 970) and to a provision in the ROAD to Housing Act. Section 405. Reforms to Housing Counseling and Financial Literacy Programs HUD -approved housing counseling agencies provide clients with guidance on a range of housing topics, including pre - and post -purchase homeownership counseling and rental housing counseling.