release, July 1, 2025, https://www.state.gov/ releases/ office -of-the-spokesperson/ 2025/ 07/joint-statement -from -the-quad - foreign-ministers -meeting -in-washington/ . U.S.-Australia Relations: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 2 state, 80% of respondents maintain ed the U.S. -Australia alliance is “very” or “fairly” important for Australia’s security.9 Figure 1. Map of Australia and its Major Cities Source: Database of Global Administrative Areas, the U.S. Department of State, and ESRI. Notes: The Coral Sea Islands and Ashmore and Cartier Islands are both Australian External Territories . Defense and Security Relations The U.S. government describes U.S. -Australia defense ties as “exceptionally close.”10 One analyst notes that Australia is increas ingly important to U.S. efforts to “counter China’s military strategy and deter potential aggression.”11 In the U.S. 2022 National Defense Strategy, the Biden Administration pledged to “deepen our Alliance with Australia through investments in posture, interoperability, and expansion of multilateral cooperation; and foster advantage through advanced technology cooperation.”12 The Trump Administration’s 2025 National Security Strategy mentions defense relations with Australia explicitly in the context of dis cussions about 9 Ryan Neelam, 2025 Preview , Lowy Institute, April 16, 2025, https://poll.lowyinstitute.org/ report/ 2025/ pre-election - release/ . 10 U.S. Embassy and Consulates in Australia, U.S.-Australia Relations , 2026 . 11 Courtney Stewart, Think Bigger, Act Larger: A U.S. -Australia Led Coalition for a Combined Joint Deterrence Force in the Indo -Pacific , Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, O ctober 2, 2024, https://carnegieendowment.org/ research/ 2024/ 10/us-australia -led-coalition -for-a-combined -joint-deterrence -force -in-the-indo-pacific? lang= en. 12 U.S. Department of Defense, 2022 National Defense Strategy , pp. 14-15, https://media.defense.gov/ 2022/ Oct/27/ 2003103845/ -1/-1/1/2022 -NATIONAL -DEFENSE -STRATEGY -NPR -MDR.pdf . U.S.-Australia Relations: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 3 multilateral cooperation in the Quad, the rebalancing of global trade relationships, and increasing allied burden -sharing.13 U.S. and Australian forces conduct bilateral and multilateral military exercises aimed at enhancing interoperability , including Exercise Talisman Sabre, the largest bilateral military exercise between the United States and Australia, and joint combined operations in the South China Sea with the United Kingdom, Japan, and the Philippines.14 During the August 2025 Talisma n Sabre exercise, the United States reportedly deployed its long -range hypersonic weapon system, “Dark Eagle,” abroad for the first time.15 Some observer s suggested the deployment was intended to signal growing U.S. hypersonic capability and commitment to deterring the People’s Republic of China (PRC , or China).16 The U.S. Force Posture Initiative (USFPI) , first announced in 2011, is a suite of six cooperative initiatives aimed at contingency planning and interoperability training between the U.S. military and the Australian Defence Forces (ADF).17 USFPI facilitates joint investments on infrastructure works and supporting arrangements in Australia. As part of the initiative, the allies maintain a rotational U.S. military presence of roughly 2,500 Marines at several military sites owned and operated by Australia, including in Darwin.18 Under USFPI, the allies are collaborating on enhanced space cooperation, and both U.S. Cyber Command and U.S. Space Command have cooperative agreements with their ADF counterpa rts.19