their forces to, if necessary , “fight tonight” —a USFK motto —the United States and South Korea have conducted combined and joint training and exercises , such as Freedom Shield (Figure 2). The exercises are designed to facilitate readiness and operational cohesion . North Korea has responded to drills , for example calling them “incursive, confrontational war rehearsal (s).”12 Successive U.S. presidential administrations generally have indicated strong support for the U.S. - South Korea alliance as a “linchpin” for security and stability on the Korean Peninsula and across the Indo -Pacific.13 Although U.S. alliance managers have particularly emphasized perceived 3 U.S. Forces Korea , “Mutual Defense Treaty Between the Uni ted States and the Republic of Korea; October 1, 1953 ,” https://www.usfk.mil/ portals/ 105/documents/ sofa/ h_mutual%20defense%20treaty_1953.pdf . See Appendix C for full text of the U.S. -ROK Mutual Defense Treaty. 4 U.S. Forces Korea , “Mutual Defense Treaty Between the United States and the Republic o f Korea; October 1, 1953 .” 5 U.S. Department of State, “ U.S. Security Cooperation With the Republic of Korea (ROK) ,” Fact Sheet, January 20, 2025. 6 Ministry of National Defense of the Republic of Korea, “2022 Defense White Paper .” 7 U.S. Army, “History of U.S. Army Garrison Humphreys,” https://home.army.mil/ humphreys/ about/ history . 8 “South Korea: Section 3 —Force Structures,” Forecast International 2024. 9 D. Sean Barne tt et al., “North Korean Conventional Artillery,” Rand Corporation, August 6, 2020. 10 Defense Intelligence Agency, 2025 Worldwide Threat Assessment , May 11, 2025, pp. 20-21. 11 Defense Intelligence Agency, 2025 Worldwide Threat Assessment , May 11, 2025, pp. 20-21. 12 “North Korea Ramps Up Criticism Against South Korea -U.S. Drills, but No Mention of Missile Launch ,” Korea JoonAng Daily , March 11, 2025. 13 U.S. Department of Defense, “ Obama, South Korean President Reaffirm U.S. -South Korea Alliance ,” September 6, 2016; Trump White House Archives, “ Joint Press Release by the United States of America and the Republic of Korea ,” November 8, 2017; U.S. Embassy in the Republic of Korea, “Leaders’ Joint Statement in Commemoration of the 70th (continued...) U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 3 threats by No rth Korea, they also have couched the role of the alliance in global terms, advancing cooperation in global health, cutting -edge technological development, and other areas. This cooperation is grounded in shared values and mutual trust.14 Congress historically has supported the U.S. - South Korea alliance on a broad, bipartisan basis. Through oversight, legislation, and other tools, Congress may routinely influence the executive branch’s handling of the alliance. For example, the annual National Defense Authorizat ion Act (NDAA) often contains provisions related to South Korea and North Korea. In addition, the House and Senate Armed Services Committees generally hold annual hearings in the first quarter of the year on U.S. military activities in the Indo - Pacific tha t include the Commander of U.S. Forces Korea. These hearings provide opportunities for Members to raise questions about