Treaty , 2025. U.S.-Australia Relations: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 17 which first established a base on Manus Island during World War II, in April 2024 announced proposals to refurbish three facilities at Lombrum. Some observers describe the U.S. and Australian moves to develop Lombrum Naval Base, initiated i n 2018 during the first Trump Administration, as seeking to counter PRC regional influence.137 Other bilateral partnerships include a Bilateral Security Treaty with Solomon Islands and the comprehensive Falepili Union treaty with Tuvalu that, among other pr ovisions, recognizes Tuvalu’s continuing statehood and sovereignty, “notwithstanding the impact of climate -change related sea -level rise” which threatens the physical territory of the island.138 At the regional level, Australia seeks to undergird a strong P acific regional identity and is a founding member of the Pacific Islands Forum (PIF), the region’s pre -eminent multilateral organization. The PIF offers a platform for Australia to coordinate with PICs and communicate shared concerns in the region, particu larly about climate change and security. Australian -led initiatives in the PIF include the Pacific Policing Initiative, which some analysts consider to be an Australian counterweight to China’s growing law enforcement influence in the Pacific Islands.139 The Environment and Climate Policy Australia, the sixth largest country in the world based on land mass, has a diverse and often fragile environment that includes rainforests, farming and pastoral land, expansive deserts, and the Great Barrier Reef. Austra lia is the driest inhabited continent and the 2019 -2020 wildfire season was a natural disaster that drew international attention as more than 46 million acres of land burned and cost Australia roughly $4 .6 billion in economic value.140 Other e nvironmental challenges include invasive species, water quality issues , drought, flooding, poor soil conservation, coral bleaching, and overfishing. The National Landcare Program seeks to address problems such as loss of vegetation, soil degradation, the introduction of pest weeds and animals, changes in water quality and flows, and changes in fire re sponse .141 A 2024 study by the Australian Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Bureau of Meteorology shows that Australia’s climate has warmed by an average of 1.51 +/- 0.23 °C (within a margin of error) since national records began in 1910. The warming has led to increased sea surface temperatures and an increase in the frequency of extreme heat events over land and sea.142 The report also noted a n increase in extreme fire weather, ocean acidification, sea levels, and heavier short -term rainfall events rising in intensity, among other findings. The Australian government has emphasized addressing climate change as a policy p riority, both domestically and as an element of Australia’s foreign partnerships. The Australian parliament has committed through legislation to achieving net zero green -house gas emissions by 2050 and 137 Zach Abdi, “ U.S. Set to Expand Naval Base in Papua New Guinea ,” USN News , April 6, 2024. 138 Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Solomon Islands Bilate ral Security