gigahertz (GHz), 1 billion waves pass through a given point in the in terval of one second. Frequency and wavelength have an inverse relationship. High energy, high frequency waves have shorter wavelengths; low energy, low frequency waves have longer wavelengths. Each wave (known by its frequency, such as 99.5 MHz or 7.125 GHz) has different characteristics, which cause them to behave differently from one another. Lower frequency waves can bend around obstacles, allowing them to travel longer distances than higher frequency waves; these waves are useful for carrying communic ations across wide areas. Higher frequency waves can carry more data (i.e., more bits per second) than lower frequency waves but are more easily absorbed in the environment, which limits their range.180 Wireless telecommunication providers deploy transmitt ers to generate radio waves that can carry communications from one location to another wirelessly. Providers rely on different bands (or sets of radio frequencies) to provide service. • Low-band spectrum —radio waves with frequencies below 1 GHz. These low - frequency radio waves have long wavelengths, can travel long distances (50 to 100 miles from a cell site) and around obstacles with less attenuation (i.e., signal loss), enabling reliable, wide area coverage; however, low -band spectrum typically has less ca pacity to carry data and lower transmission speeds. • Mid-band spectrum —radio waves with frequencies in the 1-6 GHz range . These radio waves can travel moderate distances (e.g., a few miles to 25 miles) , offering broad coverage, ability to penetrate obstacle s, and capacity to carry more data than low -band frequencies, and at higher speeds. These characteristics make mid - band spectrum optimal for mobile communications and valuable to providers. • High -band spectrum —radio waves with frequencies above 6 GHz. These high- frequency radio waves have shorter wavelengths and limited range (less than a mile) and limited ability to penetrate obstacles (e.g., walls, trees); however, these high-frequency waves have the greatest capacity to carry data at high speeds and with less latency (i.e., lag time). 180 In telecommunications, vo ice and data communications are converted into digital data —a series of 0s and 1s (called binary digits). Binary digits ( bits) are the most basic unit of data in computing and digital communications. Radio frequency waves can be altered (or modulated) to r epresent and transmit the binary data. Each cycle of a wave can be modulated to represent a single bit of data (0 or 1). With more cycles per second, more bits per second can be transmitted, effectively increasing the data rate. Thus, higher frequency wave s can transmit more data. Spectrum Provisions in P.L. 119 -21, the FY 2025 Reconciliation Law Congressional Research Service 33 Figure A-1 depicts the radio spectrum —the range of radio waves that enable s various wireless communications (e.g., mobil e use, including cellular; AM/FM radio; satellite television; Wi -Fi; military radio communications on the ground, in the air, and at sea; military radar and detection for national security; air traffic control