in NRC’s description since it departs from past regulations that primarily applied to one type of nuclear reactor or machine. 117 U.S. NRC , “Regulatory Framework for Fusio n Machines,” 91 Federal Register 9476, February 26, 2026. For the current status of the rulemaking process , see U.S. NRC, “ Fusion Machine Rulemaking Status ,” January 15 , 2026 (accessed by CRS February 26, 2026) , https://www.nrc.gov/ materials/ fusion/ rulemaking -status.html . Toward Commercial Fusion Energy: Considerations for Congress Congressional Research Service 25 reverse, and configuration s with fuels that include deuterium -tritium, deuterium -helium -3, and proton -boron -11).”118 This statement may imply that the NRC may revisit any finalized rule to address differences if and when newly developed fusion technologies emerge. The NRC can delegate some of its authority to the states. The NRC has entered into an effective regulatory discontinuance agreement with 39 states under Subsect ion 274b of the AEA.119 The role of the se states, known as “Agreement States,” is to regulate most types of radioactive material in accordance with the compatibility requirements of the AEA. Agreement States issue radioactive material licenses, promulgate regulations, and enforce those regulations under the authority of each individual state’s laws. Each Agreement State exercise s licensing and enforcement actions under the direction of its governor in a manner compatible with the licensing and enforcement programs of the NRC.120 Fusion machines, while often referred to as “reactors,” nonetheless do not require the particular type of license required of nuclear fission reactors (10 C.F.R. Part 50 ), per the ADV ANCE Act (Division B of P.L. 118 -67). To the extent that facilities with fusion machines would require only a radioactive materials license and are not fission reactors or fuel -cycle facilities, such fusion facilities may be regulated by Agreement States and not by the NRC .121 This could reduce the overall time and costs associated with acquiring permits to build and operate a fusion power plant compared with a nuclear fission plant.122 Three companies have been in consultation with Agreement States to build or operate fusion power plants and devices ,123 which perhaps indicates progress toward commercialization of fusion energy in the United States. Commonwealt h Fusion Systems (CFS) is developing a tokomak in Massachusetts and plans to build a grid-scale fusion power plant in Virginia . In August 2025, the Chesterfield Planning Commission in Virginia approved CFS’s application for a conditional use permit to buil d a fusion power plant in Chesterfield County, V A.124 Type One Energy, headquartered in Knoxville, TN, has plans to construct its fusion devices at Tennessee Valley Authority’s former Bull Run coal plant.125 Helion Energy has received approval from the Washi ngton State Department of Health to operate its Polaris126 fusion machine in Malaga, WA.127 118 U.S. NRC , Regulatory Framework for Fusion Machines , October 17, 2024 , p. 19 , https://www.nrc. gov/docs/ ML2401/ ML24019A065.pdf . 119 U.S. NRC , “Agreement State Program,” https://www.nrc.gov/ about -nrc/state-tribal/ agreement -states . 120 Organization of Agreement