judicial resolution was reinforced by the fact that it “involves foreign relations ” and “as far as we can tell, “is ‘entirely external to the United States’.” Id. at 1004 ‒05 (quoting United States v. Curtiss Wright Export Corp. 299 U.S. 304 , 315 (1936) ). Separation of Powers and NATO Withdrawal Congressional Research Service 15 terminate the treaty.114 According to Justice Powell, if Congress had done so, “it would be the duty of this Court to resolve the issue.”115 Since the Goldwater decision, Justice Rehnquist’s plurality opinion has proven influential among some lower federal courts, which have cited the decision in dismissing challenges to Presidents’ unilateral withdrawals from treaties on political question grounds .116 While courts —and perhaps ultimately the Supreme Court —might find the Goldwater plurality’s reasoning to be persuasive in a case challenging a President’s unilateral withdrawal from the North Atlantic Treaty in violation of Section 1250A, there is a potentia lly legally significant distinction between Goldwater and a case involving a violation of Section 1250A; namely in Goldwater , there was no statute prohibiting the President’s unilateral withdrawal from the U.S. -Taiwan Mutual Defense Treaty. In providing th e fifth vote for dismissal , Justice Powell maintain ed that the case would have been appropriate for judicial resolution had there been such a statute prohibiting unilateral withdrawal .117 The Supreme Court’s more recent political question jurisprudence mig ht also influence whether a court addressing a Section 1250A case would reach the same result as the Goldwater plurality . In particular , a 2012 decision addressing whether a case involving separation of foreign policy powers presented a political question suggests that a statutory prohibition of the challenged presidential action might make a difference in a reviewing court’s application of the Baker factors. That c ase—Zivotofsky ex rel. Zivotofsky v. Clinton (Zivotofsky I)118—involved a challenge to the State Department’s refusal to comply with a statute requiring the Department to record in a passport the birthplace of U.S. citizens born in Jerusalem as “Israel” if requested by the citizen or the citizen’s guardian.119 According to the State Department, its long -standing policy of recording the birthplace as “Jerusalem” on passport s reflected the executive branch’s decision to leave the question of the sovereign statu s of Jerusalem as a matter to be resolved in diplomatic negotiations.120 The government argued that this policy was based on the President’s exclusive power to recognize foreign states and that the statutory requirement impermissibly infringed on that power .121 114 Id. at 1001 (Powell, J., concurring); see also id. at 998 (“ It cannot be said that either the Senate or the House has rejected the President ’s claim. If the Congress cho oses not to confront the President, it is not our task to do so.” ). Justice Marshall also concurred in the result without a written opinion. See id. at 996. In a dissenting opinion, Justice Brennan argued that the political question doctrine did not apply because the question before the Court