The State Department’s 2025 Investment Climate Statement reports that some U.S. investors have raised concerns about reforms that replaced autonomous regulators with entities in executive agencies that could be politicized, energy reforms that favor state agencies over private investors, and the potential effects of directly elected judges aligned with political parties on judicial impartiality.11 President Sheinbaum arguably has implemented a more active foreign policy than López Obrador. She inbaum and her administration have maintained an active dialogue with the Trump Administration, pursued closer relations with Canada, and concluded an updated free -trade agreement with the European Union. Sheinbaum has participated in multilateral forums , including the Group of Seven and the Group of 20 . Some U.S. policymakers reportedly have criticized the Sheinbaum administration for continuing aspects of Mexico’s foreign policy, including a preference for nonintervention in other countries’ affairs and support for Cuba . Mexico has maintained its opposition to the U.S. embargo imposed on Cuba and , despite U.S. opposition, has shipp ed oil to Cuba to help alleviate fuel shortages on the island . In late January 2026, President Sheinbaum reportedly said Mexico had made a “sovereign decision” to pause such shipments ; her government has subsequently sent humanitarian aid to the island and offered to mediate talks between the United States and Cuba .12 According to the 2025 State Department Trafficking in Persons report, Mexican labor inspectors did not screen Cuban regime -affiliated medical professionals working in Mexico for signs of forced labor .13 Critics have argued that the contracts through which these professionals are hired violate USMCA labor rights provisions, but President Sheinbaum has expressed disagree ment .14 6 Gobierno de México, Secretariado Ejecutivo del Sistema Nacional de Seguridad Pública , Estrategia Nacional de Seguridad Pública 2024 -2030 . 7 Gobierno de México, “Conferencia de Prensa de la Presidenta Claudia Sheinbaum Pardo, ” January 16, 2026. 8 Will Freeman, “The Hole in Mexico’s Security Strategy,” Foreign Affairs , June 9, 2025. 9 International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Economic Outlook , October 2025 . 10 Government of Mexico, “Plan México: Equitable and Sustainable Economic Development Strategy for Shared Prosperity,” https://www.planmexico.gob.mx/ . 11 U.S. Department of State, Investment Climate Statement: Mexico, 2025, pp. 12, 30 -31, 38. 12 AP, “ Mexican President says her Country has Paused oil Shipments to Cuba ,” January 28, 2026. Evan Williams, “Mexico ’s Sheinbaum warns US against regime change in Cuba: “There must be no invasions ,”” MSN , February 19, 2026 . For more on Cuba, see CRS In Focus IF10045, Cuba: U.S. Policy Overview , by Joshua Klein . 13 U.S. Department of State, Trafficking in Persons Report: Mexico , June 2025. 14 Arturo McFields, “Mexico Is Violating USMCA by Supporting Exploitation of Cuban Doctors,” The Hill , December 8, 2025; and Gobierno de México, “Conferencia de Prensa,” October 16, 2025. Mexico: Background and Key Issues in U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 4 Like the preceding government, the Sheinbaum administration reportedly has not moved to expel Russian diplomats whom