“Auto Manufacturing Sites in Canada, the U.S. and Mexico,” Automotive News , Research and Data Center, accessed November 24, 2025, https://www.autonews.com/ data-center/ manufacturing -data/an-north -american -vehicle -production/ . Note: There are no vehicle final assembly locations in Alaska , Hawaii , and the U.S. territories . Policy Considerations Several federal policies have influenced the labor force of the automotive industry. These include financial assistance programs , labor laws, manufacturing incent ives, and provisions in laws with domestic production or content requirements . For example, the automotive industry’s employment of a significant proportion of Americans was considered by federal policymakers when deciding to use the Troubled Asset Relief Program to provide automotive manufacturers with financial assistance .71 Additionally, both federal and state labor laws and unionization are factors that may influence automotive manufacturers’ decisions to invest in domestic labor and manufacturin g.72 71 Treasury, “Auto Industry Program Overview.” 72 Jim Schmidt et al., Getting Under the Hood of Automotive Labor Cost Per Vehicle , Oliver Wyman, May 2025, https://www.oliverwyman.com/ content/ dam/ oliver -wyman/ v2/publications/ 2025/ apr/labor -cost-per-vehicle -report.pdf . For more on federal labor laws, see CRS Report R42713, The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA): An Overview , by Sarah A. Donovan ; for more on federal policies relevant to unionization in the automotive industry , see CRS In Focus IF12506, The UAW -Automakers Labor Dispute and Taft -Hartley’s National Emergency Provisions , by Jimmy Balser and Jon O. Shimabukuro . The U.S. Automotive Industry: Selected Issues Congressional Research Service 14 As previously discussed, the IIJA and FY2022 budget reconciliation measure included i ncentives for the automotive industry in the form of grants, loans , and tax credits.73 Many of these programs had requirements for American -made content, restricted the extent of foreign ownership by companies receiving these incentives, and sought to prioritize the domestic economy when awarding these incentives.74 Another federal policy t hat may affect domestic labor is the rules of origin provisions in USMCA that set requirements for duty-free trade among the U nited States, Canada, and Mexico .75 U.S. Vehicle Cost Trends As of March 2026, the marketed price of vehicles reportedly average d around $50,000 .76 Vehicle prices increased from 2016 to 2024 (see Figure 6), with the new vehicle average selling price increasing roughly $15,000 over this time period . A variety of factors might have contributed to the price increases . They includ e the integration of new vehicle technologies, safety and emission regulation compliance, product planning changes from automotive manufacturers, inflation across the supply chain , markup changes at vehicle dealerships , and trends in vehicle financing leading to higher int erest rates and longer loan terms .77 Many automotive manufacturers are integrating advanced driver assistance systems and connected technologies into their vehicles .78 This technological integration may contribute to increased costs associated with vehicle ownership , including new vehicle price s, repair costs, and insurance rates .79 Data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics estimate the dollar value attributable to vehicle