without preparing an EA that a project may result in significant impacts or if the EA concludes in a “finding of significant impact ,” HUD or the responsible entity must prepare an EIS and document its finding in a “record of decision .”25 Some stakeholders have argued that environmental reviews add costs and delays to housing development, while others argue that such reviews are necessary to protect both the environment and human health. This section would modify the environmental review requirements for several housing activities. It would categorically excl ude seven activities that may have previously required an EA or an EIS, although these activities would remain subject to related federal environmental laws and authorities (i.e., CEST). One of the activities that would be newly excluded by this section is 20 24 C.F.R. §58.6. 21 HUD has made available a guide to the level of environmental review on the HUD Exchange website: https://www.hudexchange.info/ programs/ environmental -review/ orientation -to-environmental -reviews/ #level -of-review . 22 The presence of extraordinary circumstances indicates that, despite the typical lack of significant envi ronmental impact associated with the action, the specific context or nature of the proposal may lead to unforeseen or elevated environmental effects (e.g., impacts to federally listed species, historic resources, or sensitive ecosystems). If extraordinary circumstances are present and the effects to those resources cannot be avoided or mitigated, the agency may have to prepare an EA or EIS. 23 For a list of CENST activities, see 24 C.F.R. §§50.19 and 58.35(a). For a list of CEST activities, see 24 C.F.R. §§50.20(a) and 58.35(b). 24 Regulations specifying HUD’s procedures for preparing an EA are in Subpart E of both 24 C.F.R. Parts 50 and 58. 25 Regulations specifying HUD’s procedures for responsible entity preparation of an EIS are in 24 C.F.R. Part 58, Subpart F. Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 6 “infill projects consisting of new construction, rehabilitation, or development of residential housing units.”26 This section would also reclassify four current CEST activities —categorically excluded under 24 C.F.R. §§50.20 and 58.35(b) —such that they no longer would require a review or compliance determination under related federal environmental laws and authorities (i.e., CENST).27 These reclassified categorical exclusions would only apply “if such activities do not materially alter environmental condit ions and do not materially exceed the original scope of the project.” The section would also exempt responsible entities from HUD’s environmental review requirements for eight additional housing activities.28 Seven of these newly exempted housing activiti es are currently CENST activities categorically excluded from NEPA review under 24 C.F.R. §58.35(b) and not subject to related federal environmental laws and authorities.29 For some projects, including most HUD grant programs, program legislation allows a responsible entity to assume responsibility for the environmental review. 30 These projects are regulated by 24 C.F.R. Part 58, and are commonly referred to as Part 58 projects. When program legislation does not permit responsible entities to assume responsibility —such as for Federal Housing Authority (FHA ) housing programs,