with increased investments in automotive manufacturing across all three countries .20 NAFTA’s successor , the United States -Mexico -Canada Agreement (USMCA) , which is scheduled for joint review in 2026 , altered rules for duty -free trade of motor vehic les, including rules of origin 18 Ian Henry, “China’s Automotive Industry: Global Expansion and Transformation,” Automotive Manufacturing Solutions , November 18, 2025, https://www.automotivemanufacturingsolutions.com/ editors -pick/ chinas -automotive - industry -global -expansion -and-transformation/ 2130475 . 19 Bureau of Transportation Statistics, “World Motor Vehicl e Production, Selected Countries ,” accessed November 17, 2025, https://www.bts.gov/ content/ world -motor -vehicle -production -selected -countries ; and Yisong Chen et al., “A Review of China ’s Automotive Industry Policy: Recent Developments and Future Trends,” Journal of Traffic and Transportation Engineering (English Edition) , vol. 11, no. 5 (October 25, 2024), pp. 867 -895. 20 CRS Report R42965, The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) , by M. Angeles Villarreal . The U.S. Automotive Industry: Selected Issues Congressional Research Service 5 requirements .21 Another trade agreement, t he U nited States-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA), facilitat ed South Korean automotive manufacturers ’ trade with the United States ; these manufacturers also increased investment s in U.S. operations after implementation of the agreement .22 In 2025, the Trump Administration levied tariffs on vehicles and components from various countries, including Canada and Mexico.23 Some automotive m anufacturers and suppliers have responded by investing more in domestic facilities to avoid tariffs, and other manufacturers have scrapped projects in the United States.24 Other U.S. tariff policies that do not specifically mention the automotive industry may affect vehicle and component supply chains (e.g., vehicles, steel, aluminum , and automotive parts) ; therefore , they may also affect automotive industry market entrants and investments .25 Some f inancial assistance programs , such as the Troubled Asset Relief Program , have broadly affected the automotive industry .26 This program supported GM and Chrysler in the form of over $60 billion in loans in 2009 before and during the two companies’ bankruptcies.27 The federal government provided financial as sistance to these companies in an effort to protect the domestic industry, suppliers dependent on the industry, and employees of th e industry during the global financial crisis.28 Additionally, the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA ; P.L. 117 -58) and the FY2022 budget reconciliation measure (P.L. 117 -169, commonly referred to as the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 ) provided several programs for the automotive industry in the form of grants , loan programs , and tax credits as a means of supporting domestic automotive production .29 Funds for several of these programs were exhau sted or expired, and some credits 21 For more on the U.S. -Mexico -Canada (USMCA ) Trade Agreement, see CRS In Focus IF10997, U.S.-Mexico - Canada (USMCA) Trade Agreement , by M. Angeles Villarreal, Kyla H. Kitamura, and Danielle M. Trachtenberg ; and CRS In Focus IF12082, USMCA: Automotive Rules of Origin , by Liana Wong and Kyla H.