157 Rod McGuirk, “Australia Won’t Promise to Side with US in Taiwan Conflict,” Associated Press, March 20, 2023; Daniel Hurst, “Australia Has ‘Absolutely Not’ Committed to Join US in Event of War over Taiwan, Marles Says,” Guardi an, March 18, 2023; Georgia Hitch, “No Promise Given to US to Assist in Potential Taiwan Conflict in Exchange for Submarines, Says Defence Minister Richard Marles,” ABC.net.au, March 18, 2023. 158 Burden sharing, that is, the extent to which allies are suffi ciently contributing to the common defense of an alliance, is frequently conceptualized through defense investment increases. During a March 2025 Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing, expert witnesses said that burden sharing can be conceptualized th rough a variety of other contributions, including U.S. access, basing, and overflight capabilities and rhetorical support for U.S. geostrategic interest s; U.S. Congress, Senate Foreign Relations Committee , Shared Threats: Indo -Pacific Alliances and Burden Sharing in Today’s Geopolitical Environment , hearings, 119th Cong., 1st sess., March 26, 2025 . 159 White House, “President Trump’s Leadership, Vision Drives NATO Breakthrough,” press release, June 26, 2025, https://www.whitehouse.gov/ articles/ 2025/ 06/president -trumps -leadership -vision -drives -nato-breakthrough/ . 160 Jennifer Parker, “NATO’s 5% of GDP defence target ramps up pressure on Australia to spend vastly more,” The Conversation , June 26, 2025. 161 “Australia Says US Missile Purchase Shows Commitment to Defence Spending, ” Reuters, July 2, 2025; Dzirhan Mahadzir, “SECDEF: White House Supportive of AUKUS, Australia Makes $500M Payment,” U.S. Naval Institute News, February 10, 2025. 162 Lauren E. Low, “NASA Signs US -Australia Agreement on Aeronautics, Space Cooperation, Nationa l Aeronautical and Space Administration, ” September 30, 2025, https://www.nasa.gov/ missions/ artemis/ nasa-signs -us-australia - agreeme nt-on-aeronautics -space -cooperation/ . U.S.-Australia Relations: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 21 Congress, some Members introduced the Stopping Tariffs on Allies and Bolstering Legislative Exercise of Trade Policy Act ( S. 348 ). The act seeks to reasse rt congressional control “to limit the authority of the President to impose new or additional duties with respect to articles imported from countries that are allies or free trade agreement partners.” Congress also may weigh in on specific trade issues by setting trade priorities for the United States with Australia. Some Members of Congress have shared Trump Administration concerns over trade barriers and reciprocity in trade relations and introduced legislation to address specific issues. The Protect Amer ican Beef Act ( H.R. 2393 ), for example, would authorize the President to negotiate a “reciprocal trade agreement ” to ensure that American Wagyu beef is competitive with Australian W agyu products, which the bill characterizes as “a dangerous threat to Wagyu producers in the United States.” Congress also may choose to conduct oversight of new or developing economic cooperation initiatives between the United States and Australia. At AU SMIN 2025, principals from both countries affirmed their desire to leverage economic cooperation as a tool for strengthening national security and agreed to establish an Export Finance Australia (Australia’s export credit and overseas development