“ U.S. Nuclear -Armed Submarine Visits South Korea as Allies Talk War Planning ,” July 18, 2023. 148 U.S. Department of Defense, “ Joint Press Statement on the Fourth Nuclear Consultative Group Meeting ,” January 10, 2025. 149 U.S. Department of Defense, “ 57th Security Consultative Meeting Joint Communique ,” November 14, 2025. 150 U.S. Forces Korea, “Mutual Defense Treaty Between the United States and the Republic of Korea; October 1, 1953,” https://www.usfk.mil/ portals/ 105/documents/ sofa/ h_mutual%20defense%20treaty_1953.pdf . 151 See, for example, S.Res. 175 and H.Res. 318 . 152 See House Armed Services Committee, “U.S. Military Posture and National Security Challenges in the Indo -Pacific Region,” April 9, 2025, and Senate Armed Services Committee, “To Receive Testim ony on the Posture of the United States Indo -Pacific Command and United States Forces Korea in Review of the Defense Authorization Request for Fiscal Year 2026 and the Future Years Defense Program,” April 10, 2025. U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 26 U.S.-ROK-Japan Trilateral Cooperation U.S.-ROK -Japan trilateral coordination reach ed unprecedented levels under Presidents Biden and Yoon, and then- Japanese Prime Minister Kishida, at the August 2023 Camp David Summit ( Figure 6). The three leaders —who are all now out of office —announced several initiatives for a “new era of trilateral partnership” that included pledges to convene trilateral meetings at high levels ( including an annual leaders’ meeting), expand trilateral military exercises, and abide by a “Commitment to Consult” on regional conflicts and challenges. South Korea -Japan relations historically have been fraught because of a territorial dispute and sensit ive issues stemming from Japan’s colonization of the Korean Peninsula from 1910 to 1945. Beginning in 2018, a series of actions and retaliatory countermeasures by both governments involving trade, security, and history -related controversies caused South Ko rea-Japan relations to plummet, eroding U.S. -ROK - Japan policy coordination . For over a decade, Members of Congress have expressed support for deeper U.S. -ROK -Japan cooperation and concern when relations between Seoul and Tokyo have taken a downturn.153 A cooperative relationship between the two countries and among the three benefits U.S. interests because it arguably enhances regional stability, helps coordination over North Korea policy, and boosts each country’s ability to deal with the strategic challeng es posed by China’s rise. Congress may choose to issue joint resolutions expressing support for and reaffirming the importance of trilateral cooperation. It also may consider whether or not to mandate the Department of Defense and Department of State to re port on progress over multiple years on the development of the trilateral secretariat established in 2024, multidomain military exercises, information sharing, and other areas of security and diplomatic engagement. Section 1271 of the FY2026 NDAA (P.L. 119 -60) prohibits the use of certain funds defense -wide and available for the Office of the Secretary of Defense until the Secretary of Defense submits to Congress a report on how he intends to advanced U.S. -ROK -Japan trilateral cooperation , as required by