branch might maintain that any judicial action could not interfere with the President’s “exclusive sphere of constituti onal authority,”274 which the executive branch might claim includes presidential powers like the Commander -in-Chief authority.275 Finally, regardless of the outcome of any case in which a court may agree to hear a challenge to a Section 1250A violation , there may remain ways the legislative and executive branches could affect the United States’ policy regarding NATO through the use of their respective constitutional authorities. Such authorities may include Congress’s powers related to foreign commerce, use of the armed forces, and spending, and the President’s powers as Commander in Chief and to receive ambassadors and other foreign government officials.276 Congress may find it useful to consider th e legal context s outlined in this report and the issues that could arise as it continues to exercise its legislative and oversight powers with regard to the North Atlantic Treaty , as well as other treaties to which the United States is a party . 272 North Atlantic Treaty, supra note 6, art 5 (“ The Parties agree that an armed attack against one or more of them in Europe or North America shall be considered an attack against them all and consequently they agree that, if such an armed attack occurs, each of them . . . will assist the Party or Parties so attack ed by taking forthwith, individually and in concert with the other Parties, such action as it deems necessary, including the use of armed force, to restore and maintain the security of the North Atlantic area. ”). For background on the complexities of Artic le 5, see CRS Legal Sidebar LSB11256, supra note 266, at 1 –2. 273 See supra “Justiciability Issues in Enforcing Section 1250A .” 274 Trump v. United States, 603 U.S. 593, 609 (2024) . 275 Although the Supreme Court has referenced the President’s role as Commander in Chief in discussing foreign affairs authorities generally, the Court generally has not specified the contours of that authority. See, e.g. , Chicago & S. Air Lines v. Waterman S . S. Corp. , 333 U.S. 103, 109 (1948) (“The President also possesses in his own right certain powers conferred by the Constitution on him as Commander -in-Chief and as the Nation ’s organ in foreign affairs. ”). In a 19th century case, C hief Justice Salmon Cha se posited in a concurring opinion joined by three other Justices that the President has some independent —and possibly exclusive —power to direct military campaigns: Congress has the power not only to raise and support and govern armies but to declare war. It has, therefore, the power to provide by law for carrying on war. This power necessarily extends to all legislation essential to the prosecution of war with vigor and success , except such as interferes with the command of the forces and the conduct of ca mpaigns. That power and duty belong to the President as commander -in-chief . Ex