s fusion power.107 The extreme temperatures and energy produced within a fusion device cause the materials within the device to degrade. It has been suggested that AI may aid in determining how certain classes of materials degrade over time under fusion co nditions by simulating the conditions within a fusion device . Certain components of the fusion reactor ( e.g., the blanket) are intended to breed, or produce , fuel (i.e., tritium) from the fusion reaction.108 This fuel can then be fed back into the device to enable the fusion reaction to continue . AI is proposed to help simulate the conditions within a fusion reactor to study this breeding potential and what materials are best suited for this process . One recently announce d projec t under the Genesis Mission is AI-Driven Evaluation of Power Plant Technologies for Fusion (ADEPT -Fusion ), being led by PPPL and Oak Ridge National Laboratory.109 Regulation and Permitting for Commercial Fusion Energy The Atomic Energy Act (AEA) of 1954 ( P.L. 83 -703), as amended in P.L. 118 -67, gave authority to regulate special nuclear material, source material, and byproduct material used for civilian 105 Mark Halper, “AI Datacenters Need Nuclear Fusion,” Communications of the ACM , September 30, 2025, https://cacm.acm.org/ news/ ai-datacenters -need -nuclear -fusion/ . 106 DOE, “Genesis Mission ,” 2025, https://genesis.energy.gov/ . 107 Shantenu Jha et al. , “The Genesis Mission and Fusion Energy,” AI4Fusion Colloquium Series, December 2025, https://www.pppl.gov/ events/ 2025/ genesis -mission -and-fusion -energy . 108 See footnote 47. 109 Shantenu Jha et al. , “The Genesis Mission and Fusion Energy,” AI4Fusion Colloquium Series, December 2025, https://www.pppl.gov/ events/ 2025/ genesis -mission -and-fusion -energy . Toward Commercial Fusion Energy: Considerations for Congress Congressional Research Service 24 purposes to the Atomi c Energy Commission (AEC), among other authorities.110 Subsequent actions transferred AEA authorities to other agencies, including in 1970 to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and, upon dissolution of the AEC in 1974, to successor agencies.111 Today, these AEA authorities have been transferred to the Nu clear Regulatory Commission (NRC) . Division B of P.L. 118 -67, the Accelerating Deployment of Versatile, Advanced Nuclear for Clean Energy Act , or ADV ANCE Act , of 2024 , amend ed the AEA to affirm that this authority extends to radioactive material produced by fusion machines . DOE , among other responsibilities, currently regulates nuclear defense applications (i.e., fusion - and fission - related weapons) and environmental cleanups . The AEA distinguishes between byproduct material resulting from nuclear fission112 and that from fusion machines and other “particle accelerators .”113 P.L. 118 -67, Division B, defined fusion machine as a device “ capable of —(1) transforming atomic nuclei, through fusion processes, into different elements, isotopes, or other particles; and (2) directly capturing and using the resultant products, including particles, heat, or other electromagnetic radiation .”114 The AEA relies on th is definition to determine whether radioactive material produced by the device constitutes byproduct material within the NRC’s AEA authority, requiring an NRC -issued