1155 U.N.T.S. 33 (defining the rules under interna tional law in which all countries, regardless of their domestic legal system, may consent to be bound by a treaty), with U.S. CONST . art. II, § 2, cl. 2 ( defining a specific procedure in U.S. domestic law in which the United States may become a party to a treaty only after receiving the Senate’s advice and consent). See also Int’l Law Comm’n, Draft Articles on the Law of Treaties with Commentaries, 1966, arts. 2 cmts. 1, 9, in II YEARBOOK OF THE INT'L L. COMM ’N, 1966, at 187 –88, http://legal.un.org/ ilc/texts/ instruments/ english/ commentaries/ 1_1_1966.pdf [hereinafter Commentary on the Law of Treaties] (“[T]he in ternational and constitutional ratifications of a treaty are entirely separate procedural acts carried out on two different planes.”). 13 See Vienna Convention, supra note 12, art. 67. 14 North Atlantic Treaty, supra note 6, art 13. The full text of Article 13 provides , “After the Treaty has been in force for twenty years, any Party may cease to be a Party one year after its notice of denunciation has been given to the Government of the United States of America, which will inform the Governments of the other Parties of the deposit of each notice of denunciation. ” Id. Separation of Powers and NATO Withdrawal Congressional Research Service 3 Constitutional Framework Article II of the Constitution sets forth a specific procedure through which the President h as the power to make treaties with the advice and consent of the Senate,15 but is silent as to how treaties may be terminated. Both Congress and the President possess other constitutional powers related to foreign affairs, which complicates the analysis of where the power to terminate treaties resides. Article I of the Constitution grants Congress several foreign -affairs -related powers, including the power to declare w ar; establish, fund, and regulate federal armed forces; regulate commerce with foreign states; “provide for the common Defence”; “define and punish violations of the law of nations ”; “grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal”; “make Rules concerning Captures o n Land and Water”; and “make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution . . . all . . . Powers Vested by this Constitution in the [federal] government.”16 Article II vests the “executive Power” in the President, makes the Pres ident “Commander in Chief” of the armed forces, and authorizes the President to “receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers . . . .”17 Apart from these textual sources , the Supreme Court has stated that both the executive and legislative branches have broad power s over foreign affairs that are not limited to “affirmative grants of the Constitution .”18 With regard to the President, the Court has further suggested that such inherent foreign affairs authority includes certain powers inherent in the role a s head of a sovereign state that appear not to be shared with the legislative branch, such as “the power to speak or