Government Consumption Expenditures and Gross Investment ,” accessed July 30, 2025 , https://apps.bea.gov/ iTable/ ?reqid= 19&step= 3&isuri= 1&1921= survey& 1903= 97. R&D = research and development. DOE Fusion Energy User Facilities DOE operate s two fusion energy user facilities, the DIII-D National Fusion Facility and the National Spherical Torus Experiment -Upgrade (NSTX -U). DIII-D National Fusion Facility DIII-D, located in San Diego, CA, “is a tokamak confinement device with significant engineering flexibility to explore the optimization of the advanced tokamak approach to fusion energy production. ”59 DIII-D is a federally sponsored facility available for researchers outside DOE to conduct research aligned with the three current research groups described below. In addition, the DIII-D fac ility is a training facility, with dedicated time for student -run projects , a mentorship program, and other programs to provide work opportunities in the fusion research fields.60 59 DOE , “DIII-D National Fusion Facility (DIII -D),” 2025, https://science.osti.gov/ fes/Facilities/ User -Facilities/ DIII-D. 60 R. J. Buttery et al., “DIII -D’s Role As a National User Facility in Enabling the Commercialization of Fusion Energy ,” Physics of Plasmas , vol. 30, no. 12 (2023) , article 120603, https://doi.org/ 10.1063/ 5.0176729 . Toward Commercial Fusion Energy: Considerations for Congress Congressional Research Service 15 Currently , there are three research groups operating in the DIII -D user fac ility: • the Plasma -Interacting Technology group , which provides an “experimental test bed for technology development and validation in a fusion reactor -relevant plasma environment to mature [fusion pilot plant ] technology ”; • the Fusion Pilot Plant Research group addresses “the gaps in physics knowledge presenting challenges to the development of a commercially viable fusion pilot plant ”; and • the ITER Research (see “ITER (International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor )”) group focuses on establishing “operating procedures and necessary physics knowledge required for ITER to achieve its research goals. ”61 National Spherical Torus Experiment -Upgrade (NSTX-U) The NSTX -U is a magnetic confinement fusion user facility located at Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL ) in Princeton, NJ , that utilizes “a spherical torus confinement configuration to explore the potential stability and confinement advantages ” of a compact tokamak reactor .62 The original National Spherical Torus Experiment (NSTX) was in operation from 1999 to 2010 , when it was shut down for a major upgrade. The upgraded facility ( NSTX -U) restarted in 2016 for 10 weeks unt il one of the plasma -shaping magnetic field coils failed , and it was shut down again.63 Since then, the NSTX -U Recovery Project has been working to return the NSTX -U to full operations.64 In a recent presentation , the director of PPPL reported that NSTX -U is 94% complete , and PPPL anticipate s generating a first plasma in summer 2026 and is aiming for a fusion pilot plant design by 2031 and operation by 2035.65 The pilot plant is not meant to be a commercial reactor but is designed for testing . ITER (International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor ) ITER,