People’s Volunteer Army signed an Armistice Agreement. The United Nations General Assembly adopted the agreement the same year, and the Korean Peninsula remained divided at the 38th Parallel (Figure 1). The combatants never signed a formal peace treaty, and the Korean Peninsula technically remains in a state of war.2 Figure 1. Map of the Korean Peninsula Source: Created by CRS using Esri and based on data from the U.S. Department of State. 1 Defense Casualty Analysis System, “ U.S. Military Casualties —Korean War Casualty Summary ,” https://dcas.dmdc.osd.mil/ dcas/ app/conflictCasualties/ korea/ koreaSum . 2 United Nations Command, “Armistice Negotiations,” https://www.unc.mil/ History/ 1951 -1953 -Armistice - Negotiations/ . U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 2 The United States and South Korea signed the U.S.-ROK Mutual Defense Treaty on October 1, 1953 . The Senate provided its advice and consent to ratification of the Treaty on January 26, 1954 , and President Eisenhower ratified it on February 5, 1954. The Treaty entered into force in November 1954.3 Under the Treaty, the United States and South Korea agreed “to defend themselves against external armed attack so that no potential aggressor could be under the illusion that either of them stands alone in the Pacific area.”4 U.S. forces have maintained an ongoing presence on the Korean Peninsula under Art icle IV of the Treaty . The alliance traditionally has focus ed on the perceived North Korean threat , which has evolved as North Korea (formally known as the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, or DPRK) has developed its weapons of mass destruction ( WMD ) and missile capabilities . As of February 2026 , about 28,500 U.S. troops are stationed in South Korea, known as U.S. Forces Korea (USFK) .5 USFK comprises predominately Army personnel operating some of the U.S. military’s most advanced combat capabilities .6 Most U.S. troops in South Korea are assigned to Camp Humphreys, which underwent a major expansion in the 2010s and is the largest U.S. overseas military base in terms of land area .7 Meanwhile, overall ROK forces include about 570,000 active -duty servicemembers and another 3.1 million reservists .8 U.S. and South Korean forces face multiple risks from North Korea : North Korea continues to develop ballistic missiles and can strike th e South Korean capital of Seoul with artillery fire.9 According to the Defense Intelligence Agency in its 2025 Worldwide Threat Assessment , the DPRK has a “nuclear -armed missile force operating ballistic and cruise missiles” that have the ability to reach U.S. forces in the Indo -Pacific .10 North Korea also is developing —and may have already developed —missiles with the capability to reach U.S. territory, including the U.S. homeland.11 To prepare their forces to, if necessary , “fight tonight” —a USFK motto —the United States and South Korea have conducted combined and joint training and exercises , such as Freedom Shield (Figure 2). The exercises are designed to facilitate readiness and operational cohesion . North Korea has responded to drills ,