indicated a number of bilateral issues betwee n the United States and Mexico, including labor and environmental law enforcement in Mexico, concerns related to Mexican energy policies, agricultural issues, concerns over a Mexican spectrum use fee, treatment of U.S. electronic payment systems in the Mex ican market, and use of third party content in North American supply chains. Bilateral discussions between the United States and Mexico related to the joint review began in January 2026 with a meeting between USTR Greer and Mexican Economy Minister Marcelo Ebrard.55 USTR Greer also indicated numerous trilateral issues related to USMCA that may be addressed in the joint review process, including strengthening rules of origin and incentivizing more mining and processing of critical minerals in the region. Th e joint review may involve revisions to the existing USMCA chapters. Revisions could be subject to approval by the U.S. Congress, the Mexican Congress, and/or the Canadian Parliament.56 Congress could consider whether and how to participate in the 2026 US MCA joint review, including by assessing potential changes to the agreement, or consulting on topics to be discussed during the review. Some Members of Congress have written letters to the Administration with recommendations for issues to be addressed duri ng the joint review.57 Congress also could consider passing legislation to clarify or strengthen its role in the review process, which is outlined in the USMCA Implementation Act ( P.L. 116 -113), such as by adding additional reporting requirements from th e executive branch to Congress, or clarifying what types of revisions to USMCA would require congressional approval. In addition, Congress may consider whether U.S. implementation of any proposed revisions to USMCA would require enacting new 53 For more information, see CRS Report R48787, USMCA Joint Review: Process and Role of Congress , by Kyla H. Kitamura and Danielle M. Trachtenberg . 54 Remarks by U .S. Trade Representative Jamieson Greer, “Opening Statement for House Ways and Means and Senate Finance Committees, ” December 16 and 17, 2025, https://ustr.gov/ sites/ default/ files/ files/ Press/ Releases/ 2025/ Ambassador%20Greer%20Reported%20to%20Congress%20on%20the%20Operation%20of%20the%20USMCA.pdf . 55 Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, “Readout of Ambassador Greer’s Meeting with Mexican Secretary of Economy Marcelo Ebrard,” press release, January 28, 2026. 56 For more information on Congress’s constitutional and legal authorities in this field, se e CRS Report R47679, Congressional and Executive Authority Over Foreign Trade Agreements , by Christopher T. Zirpoli . 57 See, for example, Letter from Rep. Rosa DeLauro et al . to President Donald J. Trump, November 3, 2025, https://delaur o.house.gov/ sites/ evo-subsites/ delauro.house.gov/ files/ evo-media -document/ delauro -usmca -letter - 10.27.25.pdf . Mexico: Background and Key Issues in U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service R48859 · VERSION 5 · UPDATED 11 legislation. C ongress also could consider voting on the revised agreement, regardless of the types of changes made to USMCA. Author Information Clare Ribando Seelke Specialist in Latin American Affairs Danielle M. Trachtenberg Analyst in International Trade and Finance Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS