Separation of Powers and NATO Withdrawal February 27, 2026 Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov R48868 Congressional Research Service SUMMARY Separation of Powers and NATO Withdrawal In 2023, Congress enacted a law that prohibits the President from “suspend[ing], terminat[ing], denounc[ing], or withdraw[ing] the United States from the North Atlantic Treaty ”—which established the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) —without the advice and consent of the Senate or an act of Congress. See Section 1250A of the 2024 National Defense Authorization Act, Pub. L. No. 118-31. This provision emerged against the backdrop of debate s concerning the United States’ policy toward NATO and whether the President possesses the power to withdraw the United States from treaties without receiving the legislative branch’s approval. Prior to Section 1250A’s enactment, the Department of Justice’s Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) published an opinion in 2020 concluding that the President has exclusive power over treaty withdrawal and that Congress is constitutionally prohibited from intruding upon this power. In contrast to the OLC’s legal position, which neither courts nor Congress are bound to consider as authoritative, Section 1250A ’s sponsors stated that the legislation “ensur es that no President can unilaterally dissolve our bond to this invaluable alliance without Senate approval .” If the Preside nt decided to unilaterally withdraw from the North Atlantic Treaty, irrespective of Section 1250A, there are at least two ways in which the statute might affect a court ’s analysis of any challenge to the President’s action. First, the statute may influence a court’s decision on whether to hear such a challenge at all , and second, the statute could affect the court’s evaluation of the President’s action in the event it decides to hear a case. With respect to whether a court would hear a challenge , two doctrines are relevant: the political question doctrine and standing. Historically, courts have generally left the issue of the constitutional distribution of treaty -withdrawal power to the political branches, concluding that challenges to unilateral treaty withdrawal by the President present a nonjusticiable political question . See, e.g. , Goldwater v. Carter , 444 U.S. 996, 1003 (1979). More recent Supreme Court jurisprudence suggests that courts may be less likely to dismiss a challenge to a Presiden t’s withdrawal from the North Atlantic Treaty in violation of Section 1250A on political question grounds. In a case involving another question of separation of foreign policy powers, the Court held that, where a President acts contrary to a statute on the ground that it interferes with the President’s Article II authority, the constitutional question is one properly resolved by the judiciary rather than left to the political branches. See Zivotofsky ex rel. Zivotofsky v. Clinton , 566 U.S. 189 , 196 (2012) . Another issue is who would have standing to bring a legal challeng e to an alleged violation of Section 1250A . This doctrine may present greater hurdles than the political question doctrine , as it would ultimately depend on whether the plaintiff is able to allege