Service 4 This section require s the HUD Secretary to issue model code language, best practices, and technical guidance to SLTTs to facilitate the permitting of “point -access block residential buildings ,” defined as a single stairway for multifamily buildings not greater than six storie s. This section further requires the HUD Secretary to encourage the ICC to incorporate provisions about point -access block buildings into the IBC, and permits the HUD Secretary to award competitive grants for point -access block pilot projects. This grant p rogram would sunset seven years after the date of enactment .13 This section is nearly identical to the Point -Access Housing Guidelines Act of 2025 ( H.R. 6345 ), with minor wording differences and the addition of a sunset provision . The ROAD to Housing Act contains no such provision. Section 104. Unlocking Housing Supply Through St reamlined and Modernized Reviews HUD requires projects proposed for HUD assistance or insurance to undergo an environmental review to evaluate potential environmental impacts and to determine whether the projects meet federal, state, and local environmenta l standards.14 HUD’s environmental review process includes procedures for complying with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA; 42 U.S.C. §§4321 et seq.) and other environmental requirements, guidelines, and statutory obligations listed in 24 C.F.R. §50.4.15 NEPA generally requires federal agencies to evaluate the environmental impacts of a proposed federal agency action and to report those effects in an environmental document.16 How a federal agency demonstrates compliance with NEPA depends on the le vel of the proposed action’s impacts.17 An agency is not required to prepare an environmental document for a proposed agency action if the action is excluded by statute or one of the agency’s categorical exclusions (CEs), or if another agency’s CE is appli ed consistent with 42 U.S.C. §4336c.18 Under current regulations, HUD exempts some project activities from specific environmental review requirements, including NEPA.19 For exempt activities, the “responsible entity ”—a unit of general local government such as a town, city, county, tribe, or state —does not have to undertake 13 This sunset provision was not present in the reported version of the bill. 14 HUD’s environmental review procedures are described in 24 C.F.R. Parts 50 and 58. 15 For an overview of NEPA, see CRS In Focus IF12560, National Environmental Policy Act: An Overview , by Kristen Hite and Heather McPherron . 16 42 U.S.C. §4332(2)(C). Congress may also exempt specific agency actions from NEPA via statute. For example, in Section 316 of P.L. 93 -288 (42 U.S.C. §5159), Congress exempted certain natural disaster and emergency response action from the requirements of NEPA by declaring that such actions were not “major federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment.” Additio nally, HUD’s Office of General Counsel may determine that a program’s activities are not federal actions to which NEPA, or other provisions of law that further the purposes of NEPA, apply (see, for example, HUD Notice CPD -16-14, “Requirements for Housing T rust Fund Environmental Provisions,” August