concern in recent years in light of notable increases in house prices and rents, rising mortgage interest rates, increasing property insurance costs, and housing supply constraints in many housing markets.1 The Housing for the 21st Century Ac t (H.R. 6644 ) was introduced on December 11, 2025, ordered reported by the House Committee on Financial Services on December 17, 2025 , reported on January 15, 2026 ( H.Rept. 119 -457), and passed by the House on February 9, 2026 .2 The bill contains a wide range of housing -related provisions over five titles and 25 sections , as well as an additional title containing 12 banking -related sections and a savings provision . Some provisions would create new federal housing programs, some would modify existing programs, and several would require new reports to be issued. According to the committee report accompanying the bill, its purpose is “to make it easier to build and afford housing, including modernizing outdated government programs, lowering costs by removing unnecessary federal requirements, and increasing local flexibility over housing deci sions.” This report provides a brief overview and context for each of the sections of the Housing for the 21st Century Act, organized by title. Many of the provisions in this act are substantially similar to provisions contained in other bills that have be en introduced in the 119th Congress, and, where relevant, those similar measures are noted in the summaries of each section. In addition, many provisions included in the Housing for the 21st Century Act are similar to provisions included in the Renewing O pportunity in the American Dream (ROAD) to Housing Act of 2025 . That measure was introduced as S. 2651 and was unanimously approved and reported by the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs on August 1, 2025. A largely similar version of the ROAD to Housing Act was separately incorporated into Division I of a Senate version of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026 ( NDAA; S. 2296 ) by S.Amdt. 3901 to S.Amdt. 3748 . The ROAD to Housing Act was not retained in the final enacted version of the NDAA ( P.L. 119 -60). While there ar e a number of similarities between provisions included in the Housing for the 21st Century Act and the ROAD to Housing Act , there are also a number of differences, including several sections that are included in one bill but not the other. This includes the banking provisions and savings provision contained in Title VI of the Housing for the 21st Century Act, which have no corresponding provisions in the ROAD to Housing Act. A comparison of those similarities and differences is provided in Table A -1.3 For more details on the ROAD to Housing Act, see CRS Report R48732, ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 , coordinated by Henry G. Watson . Legislative Status The engrossed version of the bill differs from the reported version in several ways. It adds or revises sunset dates f