. For this purpose, HUD has maintained the Regulatory Barriers Clearinghouse (RBC) since 2 001, as required in statute (42 U.S.C. §12705d). The RBC collects, disseminates, and publishes research and examples pertaining to state and local regulations and policies that affect affordable housing .5 This section would abolish the RBC and require HU D’s Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research to publish guidelines and best practices —in consultation with a task force consisting of academics, practitioners, and state and local officials —with respect to state and local zoning and land use policies (referred to in the bill as “zoning frameworks”). This section would also require a report from the HUD Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research describing the adoption of these guidelines and best practices by states and localitie s. Similar guidelines and best practices to those required by this section were introduced in the 118th Congress in the Housing Supply and Innovation Frameworks Act ( H.R. 10351 ). This section is also similar to provisions in the ROAD to Housing Act , although the latter included some additional provisions . 4 Congressional Budget Office (CBO) , “Legislation considered under suspension of the Rules of the House of Representatives during the week of February 9, 2026,” February 4, 2026, https://www.cbo.gov/ system/ files/ 2026 -02/ suspensions_week_of_2_9_2026.pdf . 5 See, for example, HUD, Eliminating Regulatory Barriers to Affordable Housing: Federal, State, Loc al, and Tribal Opportunities , January 19, 2021, https://www.huduser.gov/ portal/ publications/ eliminating -regulatory -barriers -to- afforda ble-housing.html . Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 3 Section 102. Accelerating Home Building Grant Program One factor that affects the speed of housing development is local permittin g processes. Some local governments have adopted pre -reviewed designs, sometimes known by names such as pattern books , that allow for faster approval processes for certain types of housing.6 This section would authorize HUD to provide competitive grants to eligible entities, including local governments and Indian tribes, to adopt pre -reviewed designs for certain types of low - or mid-rise housing with no more than 25 dwelling units. Ten percent of any funds appropriated for this purpose in a fiscal year would be set aside for rural areas. This grant program would sunset seven years after the date of enactment .7 This section is similar to the Accelerating Home Building Act of 2025 ( S. 2361 ) and to H.R. 5907 . It is also substantially similar to provisions in the ROAD to Housing Ac t. Section 103. Federal Guidelines for Point -Access Block Buildings Building codes provide rules and standards for the design, construction, alteration, materials, maintenance, and performance of buildings.8 Building codes are adopted and enforced by state, local, tribal, and territorial (SLTT) entities. SLTTs typically adopt part or all of the model building codes developed and maintained by Standards Developing Organizations, such as the International Code Council (ICC) . The ICC’s 2024 model building code for new construction, the International Building Code (IBC) , contains the requirement