Penetration of Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) , MITRE, September 2024, pp. 1 -12, https://www.mitre.org/ sites/ default/ files/ 2024 -09/PR- 24-2614 -Market -Penetration -Advanced -Driver -Assistance -Systems.pdf (PARTS, 2024 Market Penetration of ADAS ). PARTS is a partnership between automakers and NHTSA. 55 EPA, The 2025 EPA Automotive Trends Report , February 2026, https://www.epa.gov/ system/ files/ documents/ 2026 - 02/420s26001.pdf . 56 Samuel S. Monfort, “Vehicle Size and Weight, ” Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) , updated July 2025, https://www.iihs.org/ research -areas/ vehicle -size-and-weight . 57 Monfort, “Crash Incompatibility Between Cars, SUVs, and Pickups in 2017 -2022 ,” Journal of Safe ty Research , (continued...) The U.S. Automotive Industry: Selected Issues Congressional Research Service 10 Congressional Policy Considerations Congress has passed legislation and federal agencies have implemented regulations that affect the adoption of vehicle safety technologies and vehicle size . NHTSA is the federal agency primarily responsible for passenger vehicle safety. NHTSA addresses traffic safety issues through several measures, including federal motor vehicle safety standards ( FMVSS ).58 Through FMVSS , NHTSA may standardize safety technologies such as seat belts, airbags, and electronic stability control ; the agency has attributed these safety technologies to decrease s in roadway fatalities from the 1960s to the 2010s .59 The standardization of vehicle safety technologies is typically done through the agency developing a rule on its own or as a response to legislation requiring a rulemaking related to FMVSS. Recent laws required rulemakings from NHTSA on technologies such as occupant detection technology, automatic emergency braking , and backup cameras ,60 and NHTSA finalized these aforementioned rules . Policies that may affect vehicle size and vehicle safety include NHTSA’s CAFE standards , such as the changes to the civil penalty or addition of vehicle footprint . CAFE standards added “vehicle footprint ” to their calculation for fuel economy , creat ing flexibilities in fuel economy standards for light-duty trucks .61 This may have in part incentivize d automotive manufacturers to produce larger vehicles, as such vehicles may not negatively affect their fleet calculation as much as they would have prior to the addition of vehicle footprint in the CAFE calculation .62 Domestic Automotive Employment The automotive industry is a major employer in the United States . The industry accounts for 10.1 million direct and indirect domestic jobs, includ ing those in fields such as manufacturing, sales, engineering, and management.63 These jobs in the automotive workforce are supported by various entities, such as automotive manufacturers , suppliers , technology companies , dealerships, and repair shops . In the manufacturing space, domestic automotive manufacturers and suppliers employ roughly 1,000,000 people (see Figure 4) and account for roughly 8% of manufacturing jobs in the Un ited States .64 The aggregate numbers of people employed in the manufacturing sector, including by IIHS, December 2024, pp. 1 -18, https://www.iihs.org/ research -areas/ bibliography/ ref/2323 ; and Road to Zero Coalition (RTZ) , Massive Hazards: How Bigger, Heavier Ligh t Trucks Endanger Lives on American Roads , National Safety Council,