HUD Code ).59 HUD was directed to develop these standards by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974. The standards first went into eff ect in 1976, and HUD updates them periodically with input from the Manufactured Housing Consensus Committee. 57 See, f or example, Christopher Herbert et al., Comparison of the Costs of Manufactured and Site -Built Housing , Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University, July 2023, https://www.jchs.harvard.edu/ sites/ default/ files/ research/ files/ harvard_jchs_pew_report_1_updated_0.pdf . 58 State and local building codes apply to site -built housing as well as other types of factory -built housing, such as modular homes. 59 HUD ’s regulations related to manufactured housing are at 24 C.F.R. §§3280, 3282, 3284, 3285, 3286, 3288, and 3800, https://www.ecfr.gov/ current/ title-24/subtitle -B/chapter -XX. The construction and safety standards, specifically, are at 24 C.F.R. §3280. Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 14 The statutory definition of a “manufactured home ” includes the requirement that the home is “built on a permanent chassis ” (a chassis is the steel frame that provides the base of a vehicle) . Some observers have argued that the requirement for the chassis to be permanent is outdated and unnecessary because most manufactured homes are not moved once they have been installed on a home site. Allowing the chassis to be removed may facilitate a greater range of design and siting options for manufactured homes, such as basements or multiple stories , though it may also raise questions about distinctions between manufactured homes and other types of factory -built homes (such as modular homes). This section would amend the statutory definition of a “manufactured home ” to provide that the home may be “with or without a permanent chassis. ” It would direct HUD to issue revised standards for manufactured homes built without a permanent chassis. It would also establish procedures a state to certify to the HUD Secretary that it has amended its laws and regulations to treat manufactured homes without a permanent chassis the same as those with a permanent chassis. If a s tate did not submit such a certification by the date required, manufactured homes without a permanent chassis that are constructed after the date of enactment would be prohibited from being manufactured, installed, or sold in the state. The section also includes language that would specify that HUD has the primary authority to establish manufactured home construction and safety standards, and that other federal agencies may not establish such standards without approval from HUD . This section is similar to the Housing Supply Expansion Act of 2025 ( S. 2414 /H.R. 6293 ). Many of the se provisions are also substantially similar to provisions in the ROAD to Housing Act , although the provisions in Housing for the 21st Century related to HUD’s issuance of revised standards and HUD’s primary authority to establish standards are not included in ROAD . Section 302 . FHA Small -Dollar Mortgages Research generally shows that