North Korea. In addition, the House and Senate Armed Services Committees generally hold annual hearings in the first quarter of the year on U.S. military activities in the Indo - Pacific tha t include the Commander of U.S. Forces Korea. These hearings provide opportunities for Members to raise questions about U.S. -ROK joint war planning, the U.S. and ROK militaries’ state of readiness, the evolution of perceived regional threats, the effective ness of bilateral extended deterrence discussions, and other alliance issues. In April 2023, then-South Korean President Yoon Suk -yeol addressed a Joint Meeting of Congress during his visit to Washington, DC, to mark the 70th anniversary of the U.S. -ROK alliance. Yoon was the seventh South Korean president to give such an address and the first to do so since 2013.15 In his remarks, Yoon said the alliance has evolved into a “global alliance” that extends beyond traditional security, into ar tificial intellig ence, quantum technology, outer space, and cyberspace.16 Support for maintaining and modernizing the alliance is broadly bipartisan, but U.S. policymakers , including in Congress, continue to debate how the allies should share the cost of maintaining U.S. forces in South Korea, the appropriate size of the U.S. troop presence, the role of USFK off the peninsula, and how the allies should share operational leadership . Debates on these issues arise at a time when President Trump and ROK President Lee —both of whom took office in 2025 —have expressed interest in changes to the alliance. President Trump’s 2025 National Security Strategy (NSS) appears to reposition South Kore a as a potential player not only in areas surrounding the Korean Peninsula, but also in broader U.S. regional security priorities. The NSS calls on allies including South Korea to develop the military capabilities Anniversary of t he Alliance Between the U.S. and the ROK,” April 27, 2023 ; The White House, “Joint Fact Sheet on President Donald J. Trump’s Meeting with President Lee Jae Myung,” November 13, 2025. 14 The White House, “Joint Fact Sheet on President Donald J. Trump’s Meeti ng with President Lee Jae Myung .” 15 U.S. Embassy in the Republic of Korea, “South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol’s Address to a Joint Session of U.S. Congress,” April 28, 2023. 16 U.S. Embassy in the Republic of Korea, “South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol ’s Address to a Joint Session of U.S. Congress ,” April 28, 2023. Figure 2. U.S. and South Korean Forces Conduct a Training Raid Associated with Bilateral Exercise Freedom Shield 25 March 19, 2025 Source: U.S. Forces Korea (USFK) , https://www.usfk.mil/ Media/ Images/ igphoto/ 2003671813/ . U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 4 “necessary to deter adversaries and protec t the First Island Chain.”17 Meanwhile, the latest National Defense Strategy says, “South Korea is capable of taking primary responsibility for deterring North Korea with critical but more limited U.S. support.”18 Potentially as part of its goal to have So uth Korea lead more in the alliance,