is determined based on “income ” as defined in statute and regulation.66 Most sources of income, including veteran disability benefits, are included when determining eligibility.67 The amount of rent paid by eligible families is calcul ated based on “adjusted income, ” which is also defined in statute and regulation , and includes certain deductions from total income .68 The amount of V A disability benefits received by some veterans may cause their total income to exceed HUD income eligibil ity thresholds , as well as thresholds set by other programs that are used to fund the capital costs of affordable housing. This section would amend the statutory definition of income and exclude V A benefits for both service - and nonservice -connected disabi lities in determining eligibility for HUD -V ASH, but it would include the V A benefits when calculating adjusted income to determine rent levels. The section would also amend current law to state that the same method of determining income and adjusted income shall apply to HUD -V ASH voucher holders applying to live in housing funded through other types of housing assistance.69 This section is similar to ve rsions of the Housing Unhoused Disabled Veterans Act (H.R. 965 /S. 1415 ). H.R. 965 was passed by the House on February 10, 2025. These provisions are also include d in the Road to Housing Act. Section 402. Military Service Question The Uniform Residential Loa n Application (URLA) is used by lenders to collect information from mortgage applicants. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac publish and occasionally update it.70 The URLA contains a question about military service: “Did you (or your deceased spouse) ever serve, or are you currently serving, in the United States Armed Forces? ” This section would require the Federal Housing Finance Agency ( FHFA ) Director, within six months of enactment, to add a statement below the question about military service reading “If yes, you may qualify for a V A Home Loan. Consult your lender regarding eligibility. ” This section is substantially similar to the V A Home Loan Awareness Act ( H.R. 2362 /S. 138 ). It is also substantially similar to provisions in the ROAD to Housing Act . Section 403. HUD –USDA–VA Interagency Coordination This section directs the HUD, USDA, and V A Secretaries to enter into a n agreement, within 180 days of enactment, to share data, with the purpose of facilitating evidence -based policymaking. The section also directs the three agencies to submit a report, within one year of enactment, to various congressional committees descri bing opportunities for increased collaboration to reduce inefficiencies in housing programs. 66 42 U.S.C. §1437a(b)(4) and 24 C.F.R. §5.609. 67 For more information, see CRS Report R42734, Income Eligibility and Rent in HUD Rental Assistance Pro grams: Frequently Asked Questions , by Libby Perl and Maggie McCarty . 68 42 U.S.C. §1437a(b)(5) and 24 C.F.R. §5.611. 69 The reported version of the bill included two additional provisions: it would have exclude d VA service