2025 presidential memorandum, the FCC and NTIA may face challenges in identifying and reallocating 800 megahertz of spectrum for full -power commercial licensed use in the spectrum range and timelines specified in the act. As Congress is relying on proceeds from spectrum auctions to fund provisions in P.L. 11 9-21, it may seek to monitor (1) agencies’ progress in identifying spectrum for reallocation; (2) bands selected for reallocation; (3) the impact of reallocation on incumbent users, including federal 176 White House, “Statement of Administration Policy : S. 2296 – National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026 ,” September 9, 2025, p. 7, https://www.whitehouse.gov/ wp-content/ uploads/ 2025/ 09/SAP-S2296 -Senate -NDAA - 9.9.25.pdf . 177 NTIA, National Spectrum Strategy Implementation Plan , March 2024 , pp. A -6, A-9, https://www.ntia.gov/ sites/ default/ files/ publications/ national -spectrum -strategy -implementation -plan.pdf . 178 White House, “ Memorandum on Renewing the National Security Council System ,” presidential memorandum, February 4, 2021, https://www.presidency. ucsb.edu/ documents/ memorandum -renewing -the-national -security -council - system . 179 U.S. Congress, Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, America Offline? How Spectrum Auction Delays Give China the Edge and Cost Us Jobs , hearing, 119th Cong., 1st sess., February 19, 2025 (e.g., see statements supporting involvement of the White House in spectrum decisions from Matt Pearl, Director, Strategic Technologies Program, Center for Strategic & International Studies) . Spectrum Provisions in P.L. 119 -21, the FY 2025 Reconciliation Law Congressional Research Service 31 agency users performing critical functions; and (4) au ction proceeds and timelines to ensure budgetary targets are met. Options for Congress include pursuing additional auctions of other bands under study or reallocation of bands identified globally for specific technologies (e.g., satellite). Area s of debate may in clude balancing spectrum needs among federal and nonfederal users and among various technologies (e.g., mobile, satellite, Wi -Fi, and other emerging technologies). Spectrum Provisions in P.L. 119 -21, the FY 2025 Reconciliation Law Congressional Research Service 32 Appendix A. Background on Spectrum Spectrum refers to the range of radio waves that enable wireless communications. These waves can travel through space at the speed of light. They can be generated naturally, from the Sun, for example, or artificially using technologies such as transmitters found i n smartphones, AM/FM transmitters, and radar systems. Radio waves have different wavelengths, frequency rates (i.e., oscillation rates), and energy levels. The frequency is measured in hertz (Hz), or cycles per second. For a wave with a frequency rate of • 1 kilohertz (kHz), 1,000 waves pass through a given point in the interval of one second; • 1 megahertz (MHz), 1 million waves pass through a given point in the interval of one second; and • 1 gigahertz (GHz), 1 billion waves pass through a given point in the in terval of one second. Frequency and wavelength have an inverse relationship. High energy, high frequency waves have shorter wavelengths; low energy, low frequency waves have longer wavelengths. Each wave (known by its frequency, such as 99.5 MHz