(NBER), December 2007, https://www.nber.org/ system/ files/ working_papers/ w13671/ w13671.pdf . 63 Mary Amiti et al. , “Who ’s Paying for the US Tariffs? A Longer -Term Perspective ,” NBER, January 2020 , https://www.nber.org/ system/ files/ working_papers/ w26610/ w26610.pdf . Nippon Steel’s Acquisition of U.S. Steel: Potential Implications for the Industry Congressional Research Service 10 Innovation Adoption Nippon Steel stated that it made a commitment to the U.S. government to maintain production at existing USS locations .64 Invoking th is commitment and th e national security agreement terms , the White House intervened in September 2025 to stop the company from closing the USS plant in Granite City, IL.65 In December 2025 , the company made a decision to restart the previously idled blast furnace at the Granite City facility .66 This investment , which had not been publicly considered by Nippon Steel at the time of the acquisition, and other investments to maintain existing assets at other USS locations require capital . Maintenance of existing assets may affect the company’s ability to consider new assets that utilize innovative technologies . Research in iron and steelmaking has introduce d many breakthroughs in recent years . In particular, the production of direct reduced iron (DRI) using methane gas or hydrogen has gained traction globally. The process substitutes blast furnace -based ironmaking at traditional integrated iron and steel mills and can reduce the cost of raw steel production , according to some analysts.67 Other emerging technologies include electrowinning and molten oxide electrolysi s that can produce iron without traditional feedstocks such as metallurgical coke, methane gas, or hydrogen.68 On the one hand, legacy integrated iron and steel mills may bolster their competitiveness by adopting new technologies. On the other hand , steel mill operators might not invest in innovati ve technologies if they impose high near-term costs or if operators want to us e existing assets, among other factors . Some incumbent steelmakers and new entrants into the industry have demonstrated an interest in adopting new technologies to increase productivity and reduce externalities , such as pollution . For example, Cleveland -Cliffs established a demonstration DRI furnace in Toledo, OH , to study the technology . In addition, Hyundai Steel Company and Nippon Steel announced plans to build facilities that employ DRI furnace technology in Louisiana and Arkansas (at the site of the existing USS mini mill) , respectively .69 Companies adopting such new technologies may assume short -term loss es in profitability as the acquisition of new equipment and know -how impose s costs .70 Some innovations that may offer longer-term returns and support competitiveness may be in early stages of technological readiness 64 Nippon Steel , “Nippon Steel Corporation and U.S. Steel Finalize Historic Partnership.” 65 Marc Lev y, “The White House Says It Blocked US Steel’s Decision to Stop Processing Steel at Illinois Plant,” AP News , September 22, 2025 , https://apnews.com/ article/ us-steel-trump -nippon -steel-granite -city- 7d9acc7f1a1b08b971b374c40574beec . 66 Will Bauer , “U.S. Steel to Restart Second Blast Furnace