firms. They may, however, purchase equity shares of institutions with a primary mission of community development , up to an allowable limit. The Financial Services Regulatory Relief Act of 2006 (P.L. 109 -351) ame nded Section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of the United States and the Federal Reserve Act to limit investments made to a single institution to 15% of a bank ’s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus. The 15% cap limits a bank ’s exposure to a single borr ower and encourages diversification of its loan portfolio. This section would increase the current cap of 15% to 20% of a bank ’s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus for investments made to a single institution. The increase may encourage banks to mak e PWIs, thereby increasing credit availability for the construction of more affordable housing and for small businesses.64 The section would also direct the Comptroller of the Currency and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to submit a re port to the authorizing committees —the House Financial Services Committee and the Senate Banking Committee — every two years with certain information about public welfare investments made in the previous two years. This section is substantially similar to the Community Investment and Prosperity Act ( S. 2464 /H.R. 5913 ) and to provisions in the ROAD to Housing Act , except that the reporting requirements included in the Housing for the 21st Century Act are not included in these other bills. Title IV: Protecting Borrowers and Assisted Families Section 401. Exclusion of Certain Disability Benefits The HUD -V A Supportive Housing (HUD -V ASH) program is a collaboration through which HUD provides HCVs for veterans experiencing homelessness and the Department of Veterans Affairs (V A) provides case management services.65 Eligibility for HUD -assisted housing (including 62 A bill that appears to have a similar purpose —H.R. 6774 , “A bill to authorize the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, acting through the Federal Housing Commissioner, to establish a pilot program to increase access to small -dollar mortgages, and for other purposes” —was introduced on December 17, 2025; the text of the bill was not available on Congress.gov as of the cover date of this report. 63 For more information, see CRS Report R48096, Modernization of the Community Reinvestment Act , by Darryl E. Getter . 64 Novogradac, Senate Introduces Bill to Increase Cap on Bank Investments in Community Development , July 24, 2025, https://www.novoco.com/ news/ senate -introduces -bill-to-increase -cap-on-bank -investments -in-community - development . 65 For more information about HUD -VASH, see CRS Report RL34024, Veterans and Homelessness , by Libby Perl . Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 16 HUD -V ASH) is determined based on “income ” as defined in statute and regulation.66 Most sources of income, including veteran disability benefits, are included when determining eligibility.67 The amount of rent paid by eligible families is calcul ated based on “adjusted income, ” which is also defined in statute and regulation ,