Acquisition of United States Steel Corporation by Nippon Steel Corporation ,” 90 Federal Register 2065, January 13, 2025, https://www.federalregister.gov/ documents/ 2025/ 01/13/2025 -00621/ regarding -the-proposed -acquisition -of-united -states -steel-corporation -by-nippon -steel- corporation . 6 50 U.S.C. §4565 (b) and §4565 (l)(3) . For additional discussion on the CFIUS review process, see CRS In Focus IF10177, Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) , by Cathleen D. Cimino -Isaacs and Karen M. Sutter . 7 United Steelworkers (USW), “ Planned U.S. Steel Sale Meets Anger, Skepticism: USW Vows to F ight to Make Sure Company Lives Up to Obligations ,” February 13, 2024, https://usw.org/ news/ planned -u-s-steel-sale-meets -anger - skepticism -usw-vows -to-fight -to-make -sure-company -lives -up-to-obligations/ . 8 Caitlin Oprysko, “ Automakers Try to Ward Off an Alternative Steel Merger ,” Politico , March 29, 2024, https://www.politico.com/ newsletters/ politico -influence/ 2024/ 03/29/automakers -try-to-ward -off-an-alternat ive-steel- merger -00149821 . Nippon Steel’s Acquisition of U.S. Steel: Potential Implications for the Industry Congressional Research Service 2 interest to some Members of Congress.9 USS’s management under Nippon Steel carries potential implications for local employment where USS operates facilities, such as All egheny County, PA; Gary, IN; and Osceola, AR. Some Members have supported measures to expand domestic manufacturing employment and to host a greater share of the manufacturing supply chain in the United States .10 Some Members of Congress emphasized the value of $14.9 billion in investment from Japan to the United States and criticized efforts to block Nippon Steel’s acquisition of USS .11 Similarly, some policy observers raised concerns about rejecti ng foreign direct inve stment from a country that had a history of building manufacturing facilities and creating jobs in the United States .12 Building on these discussions , the performance of USS under Nippon Steel and the U.S. government’s exercise of its golden share may be of interest to some M embers , as it may emerge in future private sector assessments on the U.S. investment climate . More broadly, Congress may develop legislat ion to affect the steel industry and industries in the supply chain , or it may choose to oversee the executive branch ’s use of existing author ities to affect relevant industr ies. This repor t present s a brief profile of USS, selected issues that stakeholders raised during Nippon Steel’s bid to acquire the company, and policy considerations that may affect the long -term performance of USS and the domestic iron and steel industry as a whole . Overview of U nited States Steel Corporation USS is a producer of primary steel and one of two companies with facilities in the Unite d States that can produce both iron and steel on-site.13 As of November 2025, t he two integrated iron and steel mills operated by USS in Gary, IN, and Allegheny County, PA, represent ed around 28.5% of the domestic ironmaking capacity.14 USS is also a producer of secondary steel, with the company 9 Rep. Chris Deluzio, “ Deluzio, Lee, Casey, Fetterman Demand Answers