that the case required a determination of whether a statute was constitutional, which “is a decision for the courts.”124 According to the majority: [F]ederal courts are not being asked to supplant a foreign policy decision of the political branches with the courts ’ own unmoored determination of what United States policy toward Jerusalem should be. Instead, Zivotofsky requests that the courts enforce a specific statutory right. To resolve his claim, the Judiciary must decide if Zivotofsky ’s interpretation of the statute is correct, and whether the statute is constitutional. This is a familiar judicial exercise.125 The majority also found that the fact the case presented the question of the constitutionality of a statute was rel evant in concluding that the second Baker factor —a lack of judicial ly discoverable and manageable standards for resolving the issue presented by the case —did not apply. Specifically, the Court observed that the issue of whether the passport statute impermi ssibly infringed on the President’s constitutional powers required “careful ex amination of the textual, structural, and historical evidence put forward by the parties regarding the nature of the statute and of the passport and recognition powers ,” which “i s what courts do.”126 Zivotofsky I arguably supports a claim that a challenge to a ny alleged violati on of Section 1250A does not present a political question. As to the first factor, an alleged violation of Section 1250A would involve a President’s refusal to comply with a statutory directive, and thus “the only real question for the courts [would be] whether the statute is constitutional” —a question that the Zivotofsky I Court emphasized was constitutionally committed to the courts rather than to the political branches.127 Similarities with Zivotofsky I also suggest that the second Baker factor may not be implicated in a challenge to a possible Section 1250A violation, as the question of whether the President has exclusive constitutional authority to withdraw from treaties , including the North Atlantic Treaty, would require courts to analyze constitutional text, structure, and history —which the Zivotofsky I Court emphasized are quintessential judicial standards.128 122 Id. at 193−94. 123 See id. at 195 (stating that the political question doctrine applies “ where there is ‘a textually demonstrable constitutional commitment of the issue to a coordinate political department; or a lack of judicially discoverable and manageable standards for resolving it ’” (quoting Nixon v. United States, 506 U.S. 224, 228 (1993)). 124 Id. at 196−97; see also id. at 196 (“ At least since Marbury v. Madison , we have recognized that when an Act of Congress is alleged to conflict with the Constitution, ‘[i]t is emphatically the province and duty of the judicial department to say what the law is. ’” (quotin g 5 U.S. (1 Cranch) 137, 177 (1803))). 125 Id. at 196. This reasoning is arguably supported by the Court’s conclusion that the political question doctrine did not apply in Japan Whaling Ass’n v. Am . Cetacean Soc ’y, 478 U.S. 221 (1986), a case challenging