Service; CBRS = Citizens Broadband Radio Service. Am ounts marked with an asterisk indicate bands identified in the National Telecommunications and Information Administration’s (NTIA’s) Plan and Timetable to Make Available 500 Megahertz of Spectrum for Wireless Broadband , October 2010, https://www.ntia.doc.gov/ files/ ntia/publications/ tenyearplan_11152010.pdf . a. Bands have been named by different entities over time, including the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), an agency of the United Nations that facilitates global communications; the FCC; the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) , a professional organization and standards -making body; U.S. and foreign military agencies; and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Industry analysts report that bands were often named by the engineers or scientists who pioneered their use. Som e bands were named for a reason (e.g., C -band was a “compromise” band, providing medium -range coverage where only long- and short -range satellite coverage existed); the origin of other band names is unknown. Band names used in this table are those used by the FCC. For more information, see “Why Are Frequency Band Designations So Confusing?,” Military + Aerospace Electronics , February 19, 2019, https://www.militaryaerospace.com/ directory/ blog/14059687/ why-are-frequency -band-designations -so- confusing . b. These are frequencies deemed suitable and available for mobile service. The abbreviation “MHz” (megahertz) or “GHz” (gigahertz) is used to indicate a specific frequency or range of frequencies in the band. Spectrum Provisions in P.L. 119 -21, the FY 2025 Reconciliation Law Congressional Research Service R48862 · VERSION 1 · NEW 37 c. This shows the bandwidth or size of the band. The term “megahertz” is spelled out when it refers to bandwidth. In some cases, the FCC provides an exact number for the total suitable an d available spectrum; sometimes it rounds the number upward. Thus, total amounts listed in this table are approximate. d. The CBRS band has three tiers of users. Tier I is federal users, who have primary access; Tier II is commercial mobile service providers with Priority Access Licenses, who can use the band but must yield to Tier I users; and Tier III is general authorized access users , who can use the band as long as they do not interfere with Tier I and Tier II users. The FCC counts the band as mobile spe ctrum, but due to its shared nature, the FCC does not attribute a specific bandwidth. A substantial amount of spectrum has been allocated for commercial licensed use, which commercial mobile service providers monetize by providing services to customers (e .g., individuals, businesses, government) or by leasing it to other users, such as mobile virtual network operators (e.g., Red Pocket Mobile), other wireless service providers, or , potentially , satellite service providers . Author Information Jill C. Gallagher Specialist in Telecommunications Policy Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should