congressional assertion of that power . As t he Court observed : “‘[T]he most striking thing ’ about the history of recognition is what ‘is absent from it: a situation like this one ,’ where Congress has enacted a statute contrary to the President ’s formal and considered statement concerning recognition. ”257 Furthermore, the executive branch might contend that the Zivotofsky II Court’s approach to the political branches’ historical practices was heavily informed by functional considerations —most prominently the ability of the President to “speak . . . with one voice” on behalf of the nation in the international arena.258 According to the Court , the President is “better posi tioned to take the decisive, unequivocal action necessary to recognize other states at international law ,”259 which Congress “ on balance has acknowledged the importance of .”260 The executive branch might argue that the same clarity and decisiveness is necess ary in the United States’ treaty relations, and therefore functional considerations favor unliteral presidential decisionmaking over treaty withdrawal . In sum, existing Supreme Court precedent may not provide a clear answer on the question that would be p resented by a President’s claim of exclusive authority to withdraw from the North Atlantic Treaty in contravention of Section 1250A . Rather, if a court agreed to hear a case on the merits , both sides would likely present arguments based on constitutional t ext and structure, relevant judicial precedent , and historical practice of the political branches in support of their respective positions . Consideration s for Congress As the foregoing discussion makes clear, t he question of whether the President possesses authority to withdraw from the North Atlantic Treaty without congressional or senatorial approval implicates a long -standing and still -unresolved debate over the Constitution’s allocation of the power to withd raw from treaties. If a court were to conclude that Section 1250A place s a President’s unilateral withdrawal from the North Atlantic Treaty in Youngstown ’s category three, to defend such a violation, the executive branch would have to establish that the Pr esident has exclusive authority to withdraw from treaties,261 an argument that the executive branch advanced in a 2020 OLC opinion.262 The Supreme Court was willing to find exclusive presidential powers 255 See Zivotofsky ex rel. Zivotofsky v. Kerry , 576 U.S. 1, 23−28 (2015) . 256 Id. at 23. 257 Id. at 24 (quoting Zivotofsky ex rel. Zivotofsky v. Secretary of State, 725 F.3d 197, 221 (D.C. Cir. 2013) (Tatel, J., concurring)). 258 Id. at 14 (quoting Am. Ins. Ass ’n. v. Garamendi, 539 U.S. 396, 4 24 (2003) . 259 Id. at 15. 260 Id. at 28. In his dissent, Justice Scalia argued that the majority’s analysis of the constitutional text and interbranch practices analysis was principally driven by functional considerations that improperly minimized congressional actions, stating , “In the e nd, the Court ’s decision does not rest on text or history or precedent. It instead comes down to ‘functional considerations ’—principally the Court