Federally assisted housing u nits are physically inspected against tho se standards annually, biennially, or triennially , depending on the program and a property’s prior inspection score. This provision would authorize a new three -year pilot program to provide grants to selected owners of federally assisted housing properties to acquire, install, and test the efficiency of approved temperature sensors to ensure federally assisted units remain in compliance with temperature requirements between inspections. The pilot would require data collection and an interim and fi nal evaluation. This section is substantially the same as the Housing Temperature Safety Act of 2025 ( H.R. 638 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act . Section 408 . GAO Studies This section includes directives to GAO to conduc t three different studies : • A study on options for removing barriers and improving housing for persons who are elderly or disabled, including implications for the Section 202 Housing for the Eld erly and Section 811 Housing for Persons with Disabilities programs. • A study on the number of housing units, including public housing units, that are within one mile of Superfund sites. • A report to Congress on various residential heirs ’ property issues . Heirs’ property issues and related title issues can pose challenges for access to housing programs, including, but not limited to, in the context of disaster recovery . 72 For backgrou nd, see CRS Report R47204, Federal Role in Preventing Evictions , by Libby Perl and Maggie McCarty . 73 The sunset provision was not present in the reported version of the bill. 74 Section 111 of the Housing Opportunity Through Modernization Act of 2016 ( P.L. 114 -201) require d HUD to establish minimum heating requirements for public housing units. HUD established those standards for public housing in 2018 (HUD Notice PIH 2018 -19) and subsequently incorporated them into the property standards applicable to all HUD -assisted prop erties via the National Standards for the Physical Inspection of Real Estate (NSPIRE) finalized in 2023. No equivalent maximum temperature standards have been established. Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 19 Two of these studies are also requested in Section s 301 and 306 of the Revitalizing America’s Housing Act (H.R. 4856 ). There is no similar provision in the ROAD to Housing Act . Title V: Enhancing Oversight of Housing Providers Section 501. Requirement to Testify This section would require the HUD Secretary to testify on an annual basis before the Senate Banking Committee and the House Financial Services Committee. This section is substantially similar to the HUD Accountability Act of 2025 ( H.R. 3774 ). It is also similar to a provision in the ROAD to Housing Act , though that act includes additional provisions not included in the Housing for the 21st Century Act. Section 502. Impr oving Public Housing Agency Accountability This section has several provisions related to oversight of the PHAs that administer HUD’s HCV and Public Housing programs