Park , “What North Korea Stands to Lose If US Forces Korea Expands Mission to China ,” NK News , May 1, 2025 ; Andrew Yeo and Hanna Foreman, “ Is South Korea Ready to Define Its Role in a Taiwan Strait Contingency? ” Brookings Institution, March 28, 2025. 84 Clint Work, “ Seoul’s Dilemma in the Face of a New Sole Pacing Threat and Scenario ,” Korea Economic Institute, April 2, 2025. 85 “US Expert Not Ruling Out Possible Change in USFK Force Posture in Next 3 Years ,” The Korea Herald , November 21, 2025. 86 Bruce Klingner, “ South Korea Cannot Afford to Sit O ut Taiwan Contingencies ,” Heritage Foundation, October 30, 2024, https://www.heritage.org/ china/ report/ south -korea -cannot -afford -sit-out-taiwan -contingencies ; Clint Work, “Siloed No More: The U.S. -ROK Alliance a nd a Taiwan Conflict,” Korean Economic Institute of America, March 31, 2025, https://keia.org/ publication/ siloed -no-more -the-u-s-rok-alliance -and-a-taiwan -conflict/ . 87 Bruce Klingner, “South Korea Cannot Afford to Sit Out Taiwan Contingencies ,” Heritage Foundation, October 30, 2024, https://ww w.heritage.org/ china/ report/ south -korea -cannot -afford -sit-out-taiwan -contingencies . 88 Fareed Zakaria, CNN , September 25, 2022, https://transcripts.cnn.com/ show/ fzgps/ date/2022 -09-25/segment/ 01. U.S.-South Korea Alliance: Background and Issues for Congress Congressional Research Service 17 attacked it. “ I will think about that answer when aliens are about to invade the earth ,” Lee replied.89 More broadly , if South Korea intends to pursue the development of nuclear -powered submarines, some U.S. officials have said the United States would expect South Korea to use those submarines to support combined efforts to counteract China in the region.90 Changes in South Korea’s Rhetoric vis -à-vis China and T aiwan During the 2010s, the South Korean government generally was reluctant to risk jeopardizing its relationship with China, its top export destination and key partner in managing challenges related to North Korea.91 Since 2020, this reluctance appears to have receded, as South Korea has sought to align itself closer to the United States amid perceived PRC regional aggression.92 The South Korean defense community also has r ecognized that a contingency around Taiwan could have military and economic implications on the peninsula.93 From 2021, U.S. - ROK joint leaders’ statements included references to Taiwan.94 On the eve of his April 2023 summit with President Biden, President Yoon reportedly referred to Taiwan’s situation as a “global issue,” and claimed that China was causing cross -Strait tensions by attempting to “change the status quo by force.”95 Despite South Korea’s increased willingness to criticize China’s behavior, so me South Korean policymakers — especially progressives —tend to be less comfortable than their U.S. counterparts with high levels of bilateral tension with China. Under the current Lee administration, U.S. -ROK joint statements have reference d “the importance of maintaining peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.” At the same time, following his November 2025 summit with PRC President Xi Jinping, Lee said the two countries were “on a path of mutual prosperity as