effects. (2) Any loss to the FDIC must be repaid through a special assessment on banks by th e FDIC. In levying this assessment, the FDIC need not follow normal deposit insurance assessment rates and may consider who benefited from the action and the effects on the banking industry (as amended by P.L. 111 - 22).... (3) The Treasury Secretary must document the decision. (4) GAO must review the incident .... (5) The Treasury Secretary must notify the congressional committees of jurisdiction within three days. This section would expand the GAO review requirements for the systemic risk exception and would require reports from the primary federal regulator of a failed institutions. The report would include information (which can be redacted as the regulator deems appropriate) on the reports of examination, formal communications, and other correspondence w ith the failed institution leading up to its failure. This section is substantially similar to the Systemic Risk Authority Transparency Act ( H.R. 3716 ). There is no similar provisio n in the ROAD to Housing Act. 80 For more information, s ee CRS Report R46360, The Credit Union System: Lending Activities and Selected Regulatory Developments , by Darryl E. Getter . 81 Section 113 of the Federal Credit Union Act of 1934 (48 Stat. 1216, 12 U .S.C. §1761b). 82 Congress ref ormed how the FDIC resolves banks in 1991 ( P.L. 102 -242), in part by establishing LCR requirements intended to minimize resolution costs by ensuring that banks are resolved as inexpensively as possible. 83 For more on the systemic risk exception, see CRS In Focus IF12378, Bank Failures: The FDIC’s Systemic Risk Exception , by Marc Labonte . Housing for the 21st Century Act Congressional Research Service 23 Section 607. Least Cost Exception The LCR option for a failing bank may involve a healthier institution acquiring a failing institution, perhaps facilitated by financial assistance from the FDIC. Meanwhile, to prevent them from holding excessive market power, banks are subject to various concentration limits that apply to acquisition and mergers. However, these limits on mergers have an exception for banks in danger of default, or with respect to instances where FDIC assistance is provided for a resolution.84 Under these merger exceptions, there have been instances where banks above the concentration limit have been allowed to acquire failing banks as the LCR option. Section 607 would allow the FDIC to choose an alternative reso lution approach that is not least costly to avoid the acquisition of a failing bank by a “global systemically important bank ” (G- SIB).85 The section would create an exception to the least -cost requirement in cases where the FDIC determines that an alternat ive • is the least costly alternative that does not involve a transaction with a G -SIB,86 and does not exceed the cost of liquidating the institution; • is less than or only as costly to the DIF as the maximum cost criteria established by the FDIC; and • result s in an acquiring institution