d wider Indian Ocean basin . In early 2026, as President Trump has sought to deploy additional naval vessels to the Persian Gulf in the event of the use of military force against Iran, several U.S. navy vessels reportedly passed through the Suez Canal . Although expedited passage is a benefit to U.S. forces, conflict involving Iran and its proxies (e.g., the Houthis in Yemen), particularly in the Red Sea, has depress ed Suze Canal maritime traffic and thereby deprive s the Egyptian government of hard currency f rom Canal transit fees 5 David Kirkpatrick, “ Named Egypt’s Winner, Islamist Makes History ,” New York Times , June 24, 2012. 6 “Egyptian Cabinet Vows to Disperse Pro -Morsi Protest C amps ,” The Guardian (UK), July 31, 2013. 7 “Egypt ’s Sisi sweeps to third term as president with 89.6% of vote ,” Reuters, December 18, 2023. Figure 2. Suez Canal Transits by Year Source: Suez Canal Authority . Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 4 (see Figure 2). The Egyptian government, in conjunction with other Arab states, has been advocating for de -escalation and diploma cy. Israel and Gaza During the war in Gaza, Egypt work ed with U.S. officials to serve as a mediator between Israel and Hamas . Egypt was one of several nations which played a key role in mediating the October 2025 ceasefire between Israel and Hamas. In October 2025, Egypt hosted the Sharm el Sheikh Peace Summit , where President Trump, President Sisi, and other world leaders jointly signed a declaration endorsing the ceasefire (see Figure 3). Between October 2025 and January 2026 (“phase one ” of President Trump’s 20 -point plan to end the Gaza conflict), Egypt ian officials, most notably Egypt ’s General Intelligence chief Hassan Rashad , met with Israeli leaders, Hamas figures, Palestinian Authority officials, and other foreign leaders to resolve various issues, such as the future Palestinian composition of the NCAG, the reopening of the Rafah border crossing, and the disarming of Hamas.8 Since the January 2026 move to “phase 2” and the formation of the 15 -member NCAG , Palestinian NCAG officials have been convening meetings in Cairo . According to one unnamed dip lomat, NCAG officials will not enter Gaza until they have the “necessary tools to govern the enclave.”9 On January 21, 2026, Egypt formally accepted President Trump’s invitation to join the Board of Peace . One of Egypt’s primary roles in assisting Gaza’s transition from Hamas rule to civilian governance is to train a Gaza police force that can restore law and order in the Strip and oversee Hamas’ disarmament. The Egyptian government, and other nations, sought international authorization for such an underta king, which was ultimately codified in United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSCR) 2803 (adopted November 17, 2025). UNSCR 2803 states the following regarding the ISF: The ISF shall work with Israel and Egypt, without prejudice to their existing agreements, along with the newly trained and vetted Palestinian police force, to