as they rebuild and rearm Syrian security forces. Russia’s seat on the UN Security Council also gives it influence over international decisions related to Syria. Legislation and Hearings in the 119th Congress In the 119th Congress , legislative initiatives included a range of sanctions -related proposals prior to the repeal of the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act, along with • H.R. 1327 , which would direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to conduct a threat assessment of terrorist threats to the United States posed by individuals in Syria with an affiliation with a Foreign Terrorist Organization or a Specially Designated Global Terrorist entity ; • S.J.Res. 6 , which would direct the President to remove U.S. Armed Forces from hostilities in or affecting Syria with in 30 days of adoption and unless and until a declaration of war or specific authorization is enacted ; and • S. 3740 , which was introduced in January 2026 as a deterrent to Syrian trans itional government military operations against Kurdish force s, and would impose comprehensive sanctions on the Syrian transitional government and parties conducting transactions with it and redesignate HTS as an FTO .133 The Senate Foreign Relations Committe e held a full committee hearing (S. Hrg. 119 -37) on February 13, 2025 , entitled “After Assad: Navigating Syria Policy.” The House Foreign Affairs Committee Subcommi ttee on the Middle East and North Africa held a hearing on June 5, 2025 , entitled “After Ass ad: The Future of Syria.” The Helsinki Commission held a hearing on February 3, 2026 , entitled “ Securing Syria’s Transformation by Diminishing Russia’s Influence .” The House Foreign Affairs Committee held a hearing on February 10, 2026 , entitled “Syria at a Crossroads: U.S. Policy Challenges Post -Assad .” The House Financial Services Committee held a full committee markup on H.R. 4427 , the Syria Sanctions Accountability Act of 2025, on July 22, 2025. 133 See S. 3740 and Office of U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham, “Graham, Blumenthal Introduce Save The Kurds Act,” January 29, 2026. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 31 Outlook and Issues Before Congress Syria’s transitional authorities are asserting domestic and international legitimacy based on their leadership o f the late 2024 military campaign that dislodge d Bashar Al Asad and the acceptance to date by Syrians of the interim constitutional declaration and decisions they have taken . They are attempting to project an image of calm inevitability for their continuing leadership of the transition , amid sectarian violence, contested territorial control, and calls from Syrians and international observers for a more inclusive process and greater protection for minorities . As procedural steps in the transition continue , Syrian leaders face daunting challenges as they seek to reconstruct a functioning state apparatus that can protect Syrian sovereignty and citizens , rebuild national infrastructure, and establish a self -sustaining , productive economy. Interim leade rs’ willingness to share power and the durability of the peace that generally has prevailed in Syria since