An NPT Review Conference is held every five years to review its operation, and preparatory committee meetings are held in each of the three years leading up to the Review Conferenc e.73 At the spring 2025 NPT Preparatory Committee meeting, the U.S. representative said that the treaty “remains a key tool to preventing nucle ar war” and makes the world “ safer and more secure by preventing the spread of nuclear weapons” and “more prosper ous by creating a framework that enables cooperation on the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, science, and technology.”74 The 2026 NPT Review Conference is expected to begin at the end of April. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) The Internationa l Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) was established in 1957 to assist states in their peaceful nuclear programs (primarily research and nuclear power programs) and to safeguard nuclear materials from these peaceful programs to ensure that they are not diverted t o nuclear weapons uses. As of September 2025, it has 180 member states.75 The IAEA safeguards system relies on data collection, review, and periodic inspections at declared facilities. The IAEA may 70 Israel is generally thought to possess nuclear weapons, although it maintains a policy of ambiguity on this matter. 71 North Korea announced its withdrawal from the NPT in 2003 and subsequently tested two nuclear explosive devices, but whether the country remains an NPT state -party is unclear. 72 The NPT defines nuclear -weapon states as those that exploded a nuclear weapon or other nuclear explosive device prior to January 1, 1967: China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. All other NPT states parties are nonnuclear -weapon states. 73 See https://www.state.gov/ nuclear -nonproliferation -treaty/ . 74 Senior Bureau Official Paul Watzlavick, Statement by the United States to the NPT Preparatory Committee, U.S. Department of State, April 29, 2025, https://geneva.usmission.gov/ 2025/ 04/30/statement -by-the-united -states -to-the- npt-preparatory -committee -2/. 75 See https://www.iaea.org/ about/ governance/ list-of-member -states . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 14 also inspect other facilities if it suspects undeclared nu clear materials or weapons -related activities are present. The NPT requires NNWS to conclude a comprehensive safeguards agreement with the IAEA. Such agreements are designed to enable the IAEA to detect the diversion of nuclear material from peaceful purpo ses to nuclear weapons uses, as well as to detect undeclared nuclear activities and material. Comprehe nsive safeguards agreements “ provide for ” the IAEA’s “ right and obligation to ensure that safeguards will be applied” to all nuclear material of potential proliferation concern “in all peaceful nuclear activities within the territory of the State, under its jurisdiction or carried out under its control anywhere.”76 All five nuclear weapons states have concluded a voluntary offer agreement under which they h ave agreed to safeguards on certain nuclear material and facilities used for peaceful purposes. Non -NPT states may also conclude an item -specific safeguards agreement. NNWS are required to declare and submit all nuclear