Putin noted that U.S. withdrawal from the ABM Treaty would lead not only to Russian withdrawal from START II, but also Russian withdrawal from a wider range of arms control agreements. Through the end of the Clinton Administration, Russia refused to consider U.S. proposals for modifications to the ABM Treaty. Some argued that Russia’s position reflected its belief that the United States would not w ithdraw from the ABM Treaty and, therefore, if Russia refused to amend it, the United States would not deploy national missile defenses. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 60 Officials in the George W. Bush Administration referred to the ABM Treaty as a relic of the Cold War and the President stated that the United States would need to move beyond the limits in the treaty to deploy robust missile defenses. In discussions that began in the middle of 2001, the Bush Administration sought to convince Russia to accept a U.S. proposal for the nations to “set aside” the treaty together. The Administration also offered Russia extensive briefings to demonstrate that its missile defense program would not threaten Russia but that the ABM Treaty would interfere with the program. Rus sia would not agree to se t the t reaty aside, and, instead, suggested that the United States identify modifications to the t reaty that would allow it to pursue the more robust testing program contained in its proposals. But, according to some reports, Russia would have insisted on the right to determine whether proposed tests were consistent with the t reaty. The Bush Administration would not accept these conditions and President Bush announced, on December 13, 2001, that the United States would withdraw from the ABM Treaty. This withdrawal took effect on June 13, 2002. Russia’s President Putin stated that this action was “mistaken.” Russia responded by withdrawing from the START II Treaty, but this acti on was largely symbolic as the t reaty seemed likely to never enter into force. Missile Defense After the ABM Treaty217 In addition to deploying long -range missile defense interceptors in Alaska and California, the George W. Bush Administration proposed that the United States deploy a third missile defense site in Europe to defend agai nst a potential Iranian missile threat. The system was to include 10 interceptors based in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic. Russia’s President Putin and his successor, Vladimir Medvedev, argued that the proposal would reignite the arms race and up set U.S.-Russian -European security relations. U.S. officials disputed Russia’s objections, noting that the interceptors would not be able to intercept Russian missiles or undermine Russia’ s deterrent capabilities. In mid -2007, Russia offered to cooperate o n missile defense, proposing the use of a Russian -leased radar in Azerbaijan, but urging that U.S. facilities not be built in Eastern Europe. President Bush welcomed the idea in principle, but insisted upon the need for the European sites. Despite ongoing discussions over the issue, sharp Russian