10, 2024 Light Tactical Vehicle Chassis and Fleet Build $200 million AM General, LLC Totals $12.018 billion Source: Defense Security Cooperation Agency. U.S.-Egyptian Trade & Investment Egypt is the top export market for U.S. goods and services in Africa . In 2025, the total volume of bilateral trade stood at $11.2 billion , a noticeable leap from previous years (see Figure 6). Leading U.S. exports to Egypt include agricultural goods, oil and gas, transportation equipment, chemicals, machinery, and computer and electronic products.56 According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, in 2024, Egypt was the 21st largest market for U.S. food and agricultural product exports, led by soybeans.57 55 The White House, “ Historic Pocket Rescission Package Eliminates Woke, Weaponized, and Wasteful Spending ,” August 29, 2025. 56 U.S. Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration, Country Commercial Guide, Egypt, November 11, 2025. 57 U.S. Department of Agriculture, Foreign Agricultural Service, Egypt: Exporter Guide Annual , December 31, 2025. Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 14 Figure 6. U.S.-Egyptian Bilateral Trade: 2016 -2025 $s in millions Source: U.S. Census Bureau Since 2004, Egypt has participated in the Qualified Industrial Zone (QI Z) program, a trade arrangement that provides duty -free access to the U.S. market for goods produced with certain levels of Israeli and Jordanian; Israeli and Egyptian; or Palestinian content. Under the U.S. -Egypt QIZ program, the United States waives duti es on Egyptian imports if the value of the imports includes at least 10.5% Israel i content and 11.7% Egypt ian content.58 The United States is the third largest foreign investor in Egypt (behind the UK and Belgium) with most investments concentrated in the oil and gas sector. In November 2025, the U.S. Export - Import Bank approved a $4 billion credit -insurance guarantee for Egypt to secure gas deliveries from U.S. -based Hartree Partners. Author Information Jeremy M. Sharp Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs 58 See https://www.trade.gov/ qiz-egypt . Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service RL33003 · VERSION 128 · UPDATED 15 Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.