says it destroyed 80% of Assad regime’s military,” Times of Israel , December 10, 2024. 76 For more information, see, U.S. State Department Bureau for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs , International Narcotics Control Strategy Report, 2024 ; and Caroline Rose and Matthew Zweig, “ What Will Happen to Assad’s Secret Drug Empire? ” Foreign Policy, January 16, 2025. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 19 interagency plan to disrupt captagon trafficking and build regional counterdrug capacity. The transitional government has pledged to dismantle captagon production and smuggling networks and cooperate with regional countries to halt the flow of the drug across Syria’s borders. Arrests of criminals, including drug traffickers, are being publicized by Syrian authorities. Criminal networks’ loss of captagon trade revenues may add to economic pressures in some areas of Syria . Human Rights and Syrian Minorities. The Asad government’s use of military force to repress demonstrations led many Syrians, the United States , and other countries in 2011 to call for Asad’s departure. The Asad government’s subsequent use of torture , chemical weapons, and its mass execution of prisoners continue to drive Syrian and international calls for accountability. Transitional authorities have made statements calling for inclusive governance and respect for religious tolerance, and U.S. and other international officials have called on interim Syrian leaders to fulfill these commitments. U.S. officials have condemned attacks on m inority communities, including by members of or forces associated with the interim government (see “Political and Security Dynamics ” above). Some members of minority communities in northeast and southern Syria have expressed support for decentralized governance and remain skeptical of the transitional government’s intentions. The State Department in 2023 designated HTS as an entity of par ticular concern pursuant to the Frank R. Wolf International Religious Freedom Act ( P.L. 114 -281), and reported in 2025 that “armed terrorist groups, including Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, reportedly carried out arbitrary detentions and subjected some detainees to torture ” during 2024.77 The State Department’s annual human rights report on conditions in Syria during 2024 cite s UN Commission of Inquiry for Syria reporting and other h uman rights organization s’ reporting alleging the involvement of SDF, HTS, and Turkey -backed Syrian National Army forces in a range of human rights abuses and violations. The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom recommended in its 2025 annual report that HTS be redesignated. U.S. Diplomacy Since President Donald Trump’s May 2025 meeting in Saudi Arabia with Ahmed Al Sharaa , the United States has provided high-level engagement and substantial sanctions relief to the Syrian government , present ing these changes as a conditional opportunity for Syrians and transitional leaders to rebuild , reorganize , and demonstrat e their intentions toward ethnic and religious minority groups , terrorist threats, and Syria’s neighbors . The Trump Administrat ion’s engagement builds on initial contacts made and steps taken by the previous Administration in the wake of Asad’s departure .78 U.S. Ambassador to Turkey Tom Barrack serves as U.S.