- 2006. During the Bush Ad ministration, they were unable to agree on a path forward. Neither side wanted to extend START in its original form, as some of the t reaty’s provisions had begun to interfere with some military programs on both sides. Russia want ed to replace START with a new treaty that would further reduce deployed forces while using many of the same definitions and counting rules in START. The United States initially did not want to negotiate a new treaty, but, under the Bush Administration, would have been willing to ex tend, informally, some of START’s monitoring provisions. In 2008, the Bush Administration agreed to conclude a new treaty, with monitoring provisions attached, but this Treaty would have resembled the far less formal Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty. In December 2008, the two sides agreed that they wanted to replace Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 63 START before it expired, but acknowledged that this task would have to be left to negotiations between Russia and the Obama Administration. The United States and Russia began to hold talks on a new treaty during the first few months of the Obama Administration. In early March 2009, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov agreed that the two nations would seek to reach an agreement that would replace STA RT by the end of 2009. In April, after their meeting in London prior to the G-20 summit, Presidents Obama and Medvedev endorsed these negotiations and their goal of reaching an agreement by the end of 2009. When Presidents Obama and Medvedev met in Moscow on July 6 -7, 2009, they signed a Joint Understanding for the START follow -on Treaty. This statement contained a range for the numerical limits that would be in the treaty —between 500 and 1,100 of strategic delivery vehicles and between 1,500 and 1,675 for their associated warheads. It also included a list of other issues —such as provisions for calculating the limits, provisions on definitions, and a provision on the relationship between strategic offensive and strategic defensive weapons —that w ould be addre ssed in the t reaty. START expired on December 5, 2009. At the time, the negotiating teams continued to meet in Geneva, but the negotiations concluded shortly before the end of 2009 without reaching a final agreemen t. The formal talks resume d in late Januar y 2010, and the parties concluded the New START Treaty i n early April 2010. Presidents Obama and Medvedev signed the treaty in Prague on April 8, 2010; it entered into force on February 5, 2011. The two parties completed their required reductions by the treaty’s seven -year deadline of February 5, 2018. In 2021, the y exercised a New START provision to extend the treaty until February 2026. Treaty Provisions Limits on Warheads and Launchers The New START Treaty contains three central limits on U.S. and Russian strategic offensive nuclear forces. First, it