enforce effective domestic controls over WMD and WMD -related materials in production, use, storage, and transport; to maintain effective border controls ; and to develop national export an d trans -shipment controls over such items, all of which should help interdiction efforts. The resolution did not provide any enforcement authority, nor did it specifically mention interdiction. About two -thirds of all states have reported to the U nited Nations on their efforts to strengthen defenses against WMD trafficking . A Group of Experts assesses implementation of the measures. UNSC Resolution 2663 (2022) unanimously extended the mandate of the 1540 Committee for 10 years, until November 30, 2 032. Multiple U.S. government programs work to enhance export controls in other countries. For example, the State Department’s Export Control and Related Border Security Assistance (EXBS) program originally helped the former Soviet states improve their abi lity to interdict nuclear smuggling. This program has expanded to partner governments around the globe and coordinates export control and related border control assistance across the interagency.111 109 Senate Consideration of Treaty Document 110 -4, https://www.congress.gov/ treaty -document/ 110th -congress/ 4. 110 United Nations Security Council, 1540 Committee website, https://www.un.org/ en/sc/1540/ . 111 “Export Control and Related Border Security Program,” State Department website, https://www.state.gov/ export - control -and-related -border -security -progra m/. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 23 G-7 Global Partnership Against the Spread o f Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction At their June 2002 summit at Kananaskis, Canada, the then-Group of Eight (United States, Canada, UK, France, Germany, Italy, Japan [G -7] plus Russia [G -8]) formed the Global Partnership (GP) Against the Spread of Weapons and Ma terials of Mass Destruction.112 Under this partnership, the United States ; other members of the group, including Russia at that time; and the European Union agreed to raise up to $20 billion over 10 years for projects related to disarmament, nonproliferatio n, counterterrorism , and nuclear safety. The United States promised an additional $10 billion in Global Partnership funds in the 2012 -2022 timeframe, subject to congressional appropriations. These projects were initially focused on programs in Russia but have expanded globally. Since the 2014 annexation of Crimea, Russia has not participated in the G-8 (now G -7) or the Global Partnership. The Global Partnership originally spurred Russia to take on a greater portion of the financial burden for these projects and increased donor funds from countries other than the United States . Over the past two decades, the Global Partnership has expanded its donors and its recipients and now consists of 30 partner countries. The G -7 Global Partnership Working Group provide s a coordinating mechanism for nonproliferation assistance globally, and sub -working groups concentrate on specific nonproliferation areas. Recent priorities have included biological security, radiological security, and bolstering the international respons e to chemical weapons attacks. In subsequent communiques, the G -7 reaffirmed their strong commitment to the GP and recognized the importance of continuing this joint effort