against limited missile launches, and to defend its dep loyed forces, allies and partners against regional threats.” Officials from the Obama Administration testified to the Senate and repeatedly emphasized that these statements did not impose any obligations on either the United States or Russia and would not result in any limits on U.S. missile defense programs. These statements also did not provide Russia with “veto power” over U.S. missile defense systems. Although Russia has said it may withdraw from the treaty if the U.S. missile defenses threaten “the pot ential of the strategic nuclear forces of the Russian Federation,” the United States has no obligation to consult with Russia to confirm that its planned defenses do not cross this threshold. It may develop and deploy whatever defenses it chooses; Russia c an then determine, for itself, whether those defenses affect its strategic nuclear forces and whether it thinks the threat to those forces justifies withdrawal from the treaty. Implementation New START has been in force for nine years. According to the U. S. State Department , the United States and Russia have successfully cooperated in implementing the treaty , and both have completed their required reductions . Russia, has raised concerns about the method that the United States has used to eliminate some of its accountable weapons, and has, therefore, been unwilling to agree, unequivocally that the United States is in compliance with the treaty. According to the latest data exchange, with data current as of September 1, 2019, the United States had met its New START levels with 1,376 warheads on 668 deployed launchers, within a total of 800 deployed and nondeployed launchers . On February 5, 2018, Russia reported that it had met the New START limits with 1,426 warheads on 513 deployed launchers, within a total o f 757 deployed and nondeployed launchers . The tw o sides have shared more than 19,700 notifications, and each has conducted its full allotment of 1 8 on-site inspections each year. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 66 New START was scheduled to expire on February 5, 2021. According to the terms of the treaty, the parties could extend it for a period not to exceed five years, which would extend it through February 2026. Press reports indicate that President Putin proposed that the parties pursue this extension early in the Trump Administration. S ome, including General John Hyten, the former chairman of U.S. Strategic Command (STRATCOM), noted that the limits on Russian forces and the transparency afforded by the verification regime continue to serve U.S. national security interests. However, he an d others noted that Russia was developing new kinds of long -range nuclear delivery systems that might not count under the treaty limits. While some argued that the United States and Russia should extend New START first, then discuss measures to bring these weapons into the treaty framework, others suggested that the United States withhold approval of an extension unless Russia