Non -Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, July 29, 2022, https://reachingcriticalwill.org/ images/ documents/ Disarmament -fora/ npt/revcon2022/ documents/ WP70.pdf . 65 The U.S. Department of State, “Political Declaration on Responsible Military Use of Artificial I ntelligence and Autonomy,” November 9, 2023 . 66 “Fact Sheet: Vice President Harris Advances National Security Norms in Space,” whitehouse.gov , April 18, 2022. 67 “Statement of the G7 Non -proliferation Directors Group,” April 17, 2023 . 68 “Explanation of Vote - UNFC October 2023 Cluster 3 – Outer Space,” U.S. Mission to International Organizations in Geneva, November 1, 2023 . 69 Senate Consideration of Treaty Docume nt 90 -24, https://www.congress.gov/ treaty -document/ 90th-congress/ 24. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 13 The NPT is complemented by International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards, national export control laws, coordinated export control policies under the Nuclear Suppliers Group, UN Security Council resolutions , and ad hoc initiatives. The NPT recognizes five states (the United States, Russia, France, the United Kingdom , and China) as nuclear weapon states —a distinction that is carried over in other parts of the regime and in national laws . Three states that have never signed the NPT —India, Israel, and Pa kistan —possess nuclear weapons.70 North Korea, which had signed the NPT but withdrew in 2003, possesses a small number of nuclear weapons and continues to develop its delivery systems .71 Several countries, including Argentina, Brazil, and South Africa , abandoned their nuclear weapons programs and joined the NPT in the 1990s. Others —Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan —gave up former Soviet weapons on their territories and joined the NPT as no nnuclear weapon states in the 1990s. The NPT is nearly universal —only India, Pakistan, Israel, and North Korea are not parties to it. The NPT prohibits nonnuclear we apon states (NNWS) parties from acquiring nuclear weapons .72 The treaty prohibits th e nucle ar weapon states (NWS) from transferring nuclear weapons to NNWS or assisting such states with the manufacture or other acquisition of nuclear weapons . The NWS are also required to facilitate “the fullest possible exchange of equipment, materials and scien tific and technological information for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy” (NPT, Article IV-2). The NWS, defined as any state that tested a nuclear explosive before 1967, also agree to “pursue negotiations in good faith on effective measures relating to cessation of the nuclear arms race at an early date and to nuclear disarmament” (N PT, Article VI). A P -5 process involving NWS meets to coordinate and advance transparency and disarmament steps by all five nuclear weapon states. Many NNWS have often expres sed dissatisfaction with the apparent lack of progress toward disarmament. An NPT Review Conference is held every five years to review its operation, and preparatory committee meetings are held in each of the three years leading up to the Review Conferenc e.73 At the spring 2025 NPT Preparatory Committee meeting, the U.S. representative said that the treaty “remains a key