demonstrat e their intentions toward ethnic and religious minority groups , terrorist threats, and Syria’s neighbors . The Trump Administrat ion’s engagement builds on initial contacts made and steps taken by the previous Administration in the wake of Asad’s departure .78 U.S. Ambassador to Turkey Tom Barrack serves as U.S. Special Envoy to Syria and has engaged regularly and directly with Syria n leaders and regional leaders in support of agreements to end intra -Syrian violence and reach mutually agreed security arrangements in areas subject to foreign intervention. President Sharaa visited the United States in November 2025 and met again with Pr esident Trump at the White House (Figure 5). The United States suspended operations at the U.S. Embassy in Damascus in 2012; the Czech Republic serves as the U.S. protecting power in Syria. In May 2 025, Ambassador Barrack an d other officials raised the U.S. flag at the U.S. diplomatic residence in Damascus for the first time since 2012.79 The Trump Administration has not publicly announced plan s to return U.S. personnel to Syria on an enduring basis , and the FY2026 National D efense Authorization Act 77 U.S. State Department, Country Reports on Human Rights Practices: Syria, 202 4, August 12, 2025 . 78 “US removes $10M bounty on leader of rebel group now in charge of Syria ,” Voice of America, December 20, 2024. 79 Timour Azhari, “US flag raised in Damascus, envoy says Syria -Israel peace is possible,” Reuters, May 29, 2025. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 20 requires the Administration to report on security conditions necessary for the reopening of a U.S. diplomatic mission in Damascus . Figure 5. President Donald Trump Hosts President Ahmed Al Sharaa November 10, 2025 Source: Presidency of the Syrian Arab Republic. In March 2014, the State Department suspended the operations of the Syrian embassy in Washington, DC, and those of Syrian consulates in Michigan and Texas, and expelled Syrian staff. In conjunction with the visit of President Sharaa to Washington , DC, in November 2025, Syrian Foreign Minister A saad Al Shaibani reported that Secretary of State Marco Rubio had transmitted an approval that “provides for the lifting of all previously impo sed legal measures and restrictions against the Syrian Mission and the Embassy of the Syrian Arab Republic by the United States of Americ a.”80 According to a press report citing unnamed Syrian officials, Mohammad Qanatari has been appointed as Syria’s char gé d’affaires in Washington, DC.81 U.S. Military Operations in Syria U.S. forces operated in Syria from 2014 through 2025 pursuant to the 2001 and 2002 Authorizations for Use of Military Force (AUMF). Congress repealed the 2002 AUMF in the FY2026 National Defense Authorization Act. U.S. operations in Syria as part of Operation Inherent Resolve (OIR) seek the enduring defeat of the Islamic State. Press reports suggest that approximately 1,000 U.S. military personnel remain in Syria and unnamed U.S. official s have said that U.S. forces are preparing to withdraw . U.S. forces