120 Lior Ben Ari, “ Report in Syria: Russian military delegation toured Quneitra area ,” Ynet News , November 17, 2025. 121 Soylu, “ Turkey -Syria defence deal covers training and weapons supply .” 122 Ezgi Akin, “ After inking military pact, Turkey to provide Syria with weapons, training ,” Al-Monitor , August 14, 2025. 123 Soylu, “ Turkey -Syria defence deal covers training and weapons supply .” 124 Akin, “ After inking military pact, Turkey to provide Syria with weapons, training .” 125 UNHCR Operational Data Portal, Syria Refugee Response, https://data.unhcr.org/ en/situations/ syria . Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 29 other Arab states and Turkey in rejecting Israel’s July 2025 military strikes inside Syria in the context of intercommunal violence in the southern province of Suweida.126 Iran. Syria’s transitional government control s areas of Syria formerly used by Iran and Iran - backed armed groups to move weapons and personnel into and beyond Syria ; Asad’s ouster severed long-established and important links in the networks Iran has used to project regional power. Syria n authorities have reported interdicting some small arms shipments to Lebanon, but have not accused Iran or Iran -backed groups of violating Syrian sovereignty on a broad or recurring basis. This may not prove that Iran is not attempting to do so. In December 2024 , Ahmed Al Sharaa expressed his hope that Iran and Syria could have normal relations, based on mutual respect for sovereignty and noninterference.127 Syria n security bodies reportedly have disrupted attempted Islamic State attacks against the Sayyida Zeinab shrine in Damascus, the protection of which Iran and pro -Iran armed groups used as a predicate and recruiting tool for their presence in Syria. A group known as Syrian Islami c Resistance Front claims to have conducted attacks since December 2024 on Israeli forces in the Golan Heights region from Syria: its statements feature a logo similar to Iran -backed armed groups in Lebanon and Iraq.128 Syria’s transitional government, did not join other Arab states in condemning Israeli and U.S. military operations against Iran in June 2025 . Press and social media reports suggest that Israeli aircraft transited Syrian airspace en route to and from Iran, with Israeli strikes against militar y equipment in Syria since December 2024 having eliminated Syria’s already limited ability to control its airspace. Russia. Russia was Asad’s most important military supporter . The presence in Syria of Russian air, ground, and naval forces both bolstered Russia’s regional power projection abilities and served as a bulwark for the Asad government. Russia’s decision in late 2024 to limit its military intervention on Asad’s behalf , and its rapid decision to engage with Syria’s transitional authorities , illust rate the enduring nature of Russia’s interests in Syria, with continued military access as a key Russian priority. Russian personnel and equipment remain at the Hmeimim air base and the Tartous Naval Facility .129 Russian forces withdrew their presence at th e Qamishli airport in northeast Syria in January