the future of the U.S. military presen ce and security assistance in Syria? Should U.S. forces stay or go? Should U.S. assistance continue? To whom and on what terms? • Should the United States seek to shape the direction and outcomes of Syria’s transition? If so, toward what objectives and with what means? • How can the United States best respond to interventions in Syria by other actors that may jeopardize Syria’s security and threaten U.S. interests? The Trump Administration and Congress face these types questions in a context defined by the history of U.S. -Syrian relations, Syria’s decade -plus-long conflict, and their assessment of Syria’s post-Asad transition. For decades, U.S. -Syrian ties were strained and, since 1979, the United States has designated Syria as a State Sponsor of Terrorism. The former Syrian government’s hostility to Israel, its attempts to dominate neighboring Lebanon, its alignment with Russia, its partnership with Iran, its support for terrorist groups, and its development and use of weapons of mass destruction all fueled tens ion between the United States and Syria until the fall of Asad’s regime in late 2024 . In post -Asad Syria, counterterrorism, nonproliferation, civilian protection, and regional security concerns endure and may inform future U.S. policy choices. Congress and successive U.S. Administrations imposed and maintained a range of bilateral sanctions on Syria and targeted sanctions on entities and individuals (see “U.S. Sanctions and Syria ” below). After t he onset of the anti -Asad uprising in 2011 and the outbreak of conflict , the United States and European countries impose d additional, more punishing sanctions on the Syrian government and individuals and entities supporting it. The Trump Administration has pursued a policy of engagement and conditional support toward Syria’s transitional government, removing many U.S. sancti ons ( and stating an intent to rescind Syria’s state sponsor of terrorism designation). The duration, severity, and effects of conflict in Syria have created some actual and potential threats for U.S., European, and regional security related to terrorism, w eapons proliferation, the use of chemical weapons, military intervention, drug trafficking, and mass migration. In this context, successive Administrations and Congress have prioritized the following issues: Counterterrorism. The former Syrian government’s support for terrorism and the exploitation of Syrian territory by transnational terrorist groups to recruit, train, equip, raise funds, and plan attacks ha ve been focal points for U.S. policymakers since before 2011 . U.S. government reporting has describe d how Al Qaeda, the Islamic State, Hezbollah and other Iran -backed U.S. - designated terrorist groups, and the Kurdistan Workers Party ( PKK ) have used Syria to further their aims, some with the active support of the Asad government.63 Syria -based members of terrorist organizations, including the Islamic State, have used Syria “to plot or inspire external terrorist operations .”64 U.S. and partner force operations ended the Islamic State’s control of populated territories in Syria in March 2019, but remnants of the group have continued to operate from remote areas in central Syria and