CTC Sentinel , October 2018; and Charles Lister, “How al - Qa`ida Lost Control of its Syrian Affiliate: The Inside Story,” CTC Sentinel , Februa ry 2018. 137 PBS Frontline Interview with Nada Bakos, Frontline , “The Frontline Interviews: The Jihadist ,” June 1, 2021. 138 Sharaa reportedly was detained while using a false identity. Figure A -1. Interim President of the Syrian Arab Repu blic Ahmed Al Sharaa Source s: Above : Associated Press, 2016. Below : Syrian Arab News Agency (SANA), February 25, 2025. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 36 a small number of AQI/ISI cadres. In late 2011, Jabha t al Nusra Li -Ahl al Sham (the Support Front for the People of Syria, or Nusra Front) began targeting the Asad government. According to the U.S. government, from November 2011 to December 2012, the Nusra Front claimed “nearly 600 attacks —ranging from more than 40 suicide attacks to small arms and improvised explosive device operations —in major city centers.” The State Department described the Nusra Front in 2012 as “an attempt by AQI to hijack the struggles of the Syrian people for its own malign purposes.”139 Under Sharaa’s leadership, the Nusra Front became a leading actor in the insurgency against Asad, drawing greater support from some other Syrian factions. In April 2013, Baghdadi attempted to reassert direct control over the Nusra Front and announced t hat Sharaa’s group would be dissolved into the newly announced Islamic State of Iraq and al Sham (ISIL/ISIS). Sharaa said he and his group were not consulted on the change, and they pledged allegiance to Al Qaeda leader Ayman al Zawahiri and said the Nusra Front would continue its operations.140 While Islamic State and Al Qaeda leaders disputed global leadership of the jihadist movement in 2014 and 2015, IS and Nusra Front fighters clashed in Syria, with IS forces expelling the Nusra Front and other armed an ti-Asad groups from large areas of northern and central Syria. Sharaa announced the dissolution of the Nusra Front in July 2016 and rebranded the group as Jabhat Fatah al Sham (the Syrian Victory Front). In January 2017, Sharaa merged his group with some other armed Islamist opponents of Asad and established Hayat Tahrir al Sham (the Organization for the Liberation of Syria). Al Qaeda rejected Sharaa’s decisions and accused Sharaa of betrayal . Several Al Qaeda ideologues and operatives left the new coaliti on. Sharaa later directed HTS security operations against Al Qaeda -linked figures. By 2018, HTS had become the de facto authority in Idlib province in northwest Syria, coopting some rivals and suppressing some groups’ opposition to its leadership through force. Some Al Qaeda -linked elements of HTS opposed reported HTS security cooperatio n with Turkey and HTS leaders’ emphasis on local security and administration. These elements split from HTS, forming Hurras Al Din (Guardians of Religion). In 2025, U.S. military strikes continue d to target Hurras Al Din members. HTS established the Syrian Salvation Government in Idlib to administer