stockpiles of chemical weapons —both ratified the Chemical Weapons Convention. In December 1997, more than 120 states signed an international ag reement banning the use of anti personnel land mines; however, a number of major countries , including the United States, have so far declined to sign. Yet, for many, hopes for a new era were clouded by the slow pace of ratification and implementation for many agreements. The 1991 START I Treaty did not enter into force until late 1994; the 1993 START II Treaty never entered into force and was replaced by a new, less detailed Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty in 2002. India and Pakistan conducted nuclear weapons tests in 1998. Iran and North Korea raised new questions about the viability of the Nuclear Non - Proliferation Treaty and its role in stemming nuclear proliferation. In addition, the U.S. Senate’s rejection of the CTBT in 1999 , the Bush Administration’s withdrawal from the ABM T reaty in 2002, and the U.S. rejection of a verification protocol for the Biological Weapons Convention led some to question the U.S. commitment to the arms control process. During the George W. Bush Administration , the President and many in his Administrat ion questioned the degree to which arms control negotiations and formal treaties could enhance U.S. security objectives. They argued that the United States did not need formal treaties to reduce or restrain its strategic nuclear forces. As a result, Presid ent Bush initially intended to reduce U.S. nuclear forces without signing a treaty that would require Russia to do the same. The Bush Administration incorporated these reductions into a formal treaty only after Russia insisted on such a document. Similarly , some in the Bush Administration argued that some formal, multilateral arms control regimes went too far in restraining U.S. options without limiting the forces of potential adversaries. Instead, the Administration preferred, when necessary, that the United States take unilateral military action or join in ad hoc coalitions to stem the proliferation of WMD .9 During the Bush Administration, the United States outlined new initiatives in nonproliferation policy that took a far less formal approach, with volu ntary guidelines and voluntary participation replacing treaties and multilateral conventions , such as the Proliferation Security Initiative or the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism . The U.S. government also increased its efforts domestically an d in partnership with other countries to address the potential risks of WMD terrorism problem following the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The Obama Administration sought to enhance the role of arms control and nonproliferation agreements in U.S. national security policy , highlighting this in its Nuclear Posture Review (NPR) .10 In a speech in Prague in April 2009, the President outlined an agenda that included the pursuit of a new strategic arms control treaty with Russia, efforts to secure the rat ification and entry into force of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, and the eventual negotiation of a Fissile 8 See CRS Report R45033, Nuclear Negotiations with North