to criminally investigat e any individual incidents that took place during the violence . Authorities since have undertaken investigations and pursued court proceedings f or individuals suspected of involvement in the violence, including some security force personnel. In November 2025, a court 34 Independent International Commission of Inquiry on the Syrian Arab Republic, Violations against civilians in Coastal and Western Central Syria in January - March 2025 , UN Document A/HRC/59/CRP.4, August 11, 2025. 35 The body responsible is the National Inquiry and High -Level Committee to Maintain Civil Peace . Figure 3. Syria: Coastal Governorates Source: CRS, using State Department and Esri data. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 12 in Aleppo heard arguments from seven security force personnel and seven alleged Asad loyalists accused of involvement in the violenc e. Investigators have referred more than 560 individuals for prosecution in connection with the March -April incidents. On December 26, an attack on an Alawite mosque in Homs killed and injured civilians; Saraya Ansar al Sunnah , an armed group founded by ex tremist former members of HTS, claimed responsibility. The group has claimed a series of arson, assassination, and bombing attacks targeting Alawite, Shia, and Christian communities since early 2025. Protests in Alawite areas of coastal and western Syria f ollowed the Homs attack, with demonstrators calling for the protection of minority communities and some advancing calls for federalism. Syrian authorities blamed former regime members for shooting attacks during the protests that killed Interior Security F orce (ISF) personnel and prompted the deployment of military forces and the imposition of a curfew. Media reporting has identified former Asad regime officers outside of Syria who are suspected of involvement in instigating sectarian violence and targeting government forces.36 Violence in Southern Governorates The extent of national authorities ’ control over armed groups and their commitment to civilian protection came under renewed scrutiny as sectarian violence involving members of Druze and Sunni Arab communities erupted in southern Syria in April, May, and July 2025 . Strained relationships between Druze communities and their Sunni Arab neighbors flared south of Damascus in April and May after criminal incidents and false social media reports about religiously antagonistic statements led armed groups to mobilize. In Jul y, latent tensions between Bedouin and Druze communities in and around the predominantly Druze city of Suweida spilled over into clashes that drew in tribal fighters, security forces, and Druze militia. The violence killed nearly 1,400 combatants and civilians, displaced an estimated more than 185,000 people, and prompted military intervention by Israel , including Israeli strikes on the Ministry of Defense headquarters in Damascus .37 As of January 2026, the UN reported that “155,000 people who have been uprooted since July 2025 cannot return home owing to the fragile security situation.”38 The UN Human Rights Office cited credible reports of “widespread violations and abuses” attributed to “members of the security forces and individuals affiliated with the interim authorities, as well as other armed elements from the area,