is an important moment in our history .... We are one and we will remain one.”31 Despite these public calls for improved interfaith relations in Egypt, the Coptic Christian community continues to face professional and social discrimination, along with occasional 27 “Egypt’s National Political Dialogue agrees on social issues to discuss, voices appreciation for pardons ,” Al Ahram , July 30, 2022. 28 U.S. Department of State , 2024 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices : Egyp t. 29 The World Factbook, last updated August 23, 202 4. 30 See George Sadek, “Egypt: Court Grants Christian Woman Share of Father’s Estate Equal to Share of Her Two Brothers,” Global Legal Monitor , The Law Library, Library of Congress, January 9, 2020. See also, “Egypt court gives Coptic woman inheritance equival ent to the man,” Egypt Independent , April 11, 2023. 31 “Egypt’s Sisi Opens Mega -Mosque and Middle East’s Largest Cathedral in New Capital,” Reuters , January 6, 2019. Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 9 sectarian attacks. According to the 2025 U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom report, “While Egyptian security services sometimes moved expeditiously to quell violent incidents against churches, observers criticized authorities’ slow response in other instances, resulting in property damage ”; the report also noted that “Egypt’s government maintained some initiatives to recognize and encourage religious inclusivity.”32 Terrorism in the Sinai, the Muslim Brotherhood, and U.S. -Egyptian Counter-Terrorism Cooperation Terrorism in the Sinai . From roughly 2011 until 2023, several terrorist groups based in the Sinai Peninsula (the Sinai) waged an insurgency against the Egyptian government and committed terrorist acts against the civilian population there. Of these groups, the Islamic State’s Sinai Province affiliate (IS -SP), established in 2014, was the most lethal. IS -SP attacked the Egyptian military repeatedly, targeted Coptic Christian individuals and places of worship, and occasionally fired rockets into Israel. In October 2015, IS -SP targeted Russian tourists departing the Sinai by planting a bomb aboard Metrojet Flight 9268, which exploded midair, killing all 224 passengers and crew aboard. Two years later, in November 2017, IS -SP gunmen launched an attack against the Al Rawdah mosque in the town of Bir al Abed in north ern Sinai. That attack killed at least 305 people, making it the deadliest terrorist attack in Egypt’s modern history.33 The State Department designated IS -SP as a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO) in 2014. For several years, there have been no mass civilian casualty terrorist incidents reported in the Sinai. Egyptian counterterrorism efforts there appear to have been effective, most notably the Egyptian Army’s decision to enlist local Sinai tribes to form a local security force called the Sinai Tribe s Union.34 The Egyptian government also has used non -military means, such as increased economic development in the Sinai, in an effort to win support among the local population. In 2021, the government inaugurated in northern Sinai the world’s largest agri cultural wastewater treatment plant, as part of a national initiative to develop the area and