May Withdraw from Agreement with NATO ,” RIA Novosti , April 27, 2007; “Russian Paper Examines NATO Ties, Impact of CFE Moratorium,” BBC Monitoring Service , May 1, 2007. Translation from Kommersant , April 28, 2007. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 46 no softening of the Russian position. A Russian request to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe for a special conference of CFE signatories in June was granted.203 The conference failed to resolve any of the outstanding issues, and the state parties were un able to find sufficient common ground to issue a final joint statement. The European and U.S. governments reacted with some surprise at the harshness of Russian statements and urged Russia to address its concerns within the consultative framework of the treaty rather than pursue a withdrawal. However, then-Secretary of State Rice and Secretary of Defense Gates, in conversations with President Putin and Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov, and the Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs , in testimony before the U.S. Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, reiterated the U.S. position that ratification of the CFE Adaptation Agreement still remained contingent upon Russia fulfilling its commitment to withdraw its military forces fro m Georgia and Moldova.204 On November 30, 2007, President Putin signed legislation from the Duma that suspend ed Russian compliance with CFE, effective December 12, 2007. This action came during the Madrid OSCE summit meeting and evoked an expression of regr et on the part of NATO officials, who noted that Russia’s military posture would be under discussion at the NATO foreign ministers meeting in December. Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns characterized the Russian action as a “mistake” and urged Russia to negotiate its concerns within the CFE framework. Russian officials emphasized that this action was not a withdrawal from the treaty, and that they were willing to participate in further discussions if they perceive d a greater willingness on the part of the NATO allies to address their concerns. However, in recent years, it has become clear that Russia does not intend to return to the CFE Treaty; it would prefer the negotiation of a new agreement that reflected the ne w security environment in Europe. Moreover, in March 2015, Russia suspended its participation in the Joint Consultative Group of the CFE Treaty, leaving little room for continued dialogue or cooperation. In 2007, Russian officials indicated that Russia did not plan to conduct any significant redeployment of forces outside the treaty limits. However, in August 2008, Russia sent military forces into Georgia without the consent of the Georgian government and recognized two provinces of Georgia, Abkhazia and So uth Ossetia , as independent states . U.S. officials have noted that these steps are inconsistent with Russia’s obligation under the CFE Treaty “to refrain ... from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State .” In addition, because Russia has suspended