United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (COPUOS), the United Nations C onference on Disarmament (CD) facilitates multilateral discussions on the peaceful use of outer space. Countries continue to debate how to approach these growing challenges. Russia and China advocate for a formal treaty, and presented a draft Prevention of an Arms Race in Space (PAROS) Treaty to the CD in 2008.103 The United States prefers to develop norms surrounding the use of outer space. Following concerns raised by U.S. officials in 2024 about the possibility of Russian deployment of a nuclear -armed sat ellite in space , the United States and Japan introduced a UN Security Council resolution in April 2024 that underlined the “shared goal of preventing an arms race in outer space and the obligations of all States Parties to comply with the Outer Space Treat y, including not to place in orbit around the Earth any objects carrying nuclear weapons or any other kinds of WMD. It further calls on UN Member States to not develop any nuclear weapons, or other kinds of WMD, that are specifically designed to be placed in orbit around the Earth. ”104 Efforts to Counter Nuclear and Other WMD Terrorism and Proliferation Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material (CPPNM) The Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material (CPPNM) , adopted in 1987, sets international standards for nuclear trade and commerce. The CPPNM established security requirements for the protection of nuclear materials against terrorism; parties to the treaty agree to report to the IAEA on the disposition of n uclear materials being transported and agree to provide 101 See https://treaties.unoda.org/ t/outer_space . 102 Senate Consideration of Treaty Document 90 -4, https: //www.congress.gov/ treaty -document/ 90th-congress/ 4/ resolution -text. 103 United Nations General Assembly: Conference of Disarmament, February 2008, https://undocs.org/ pdf?symbol= en/ CD/1839 . 104 “Joint Statement on Behalf of the United States and Japan on the Draft Security Council Resolution on Weapons of Mass Destruction in Outer Space,” United States Mission to the United Nations Press Release, April 19, 2024. The resolution was vetoed by the Ru ssian Federation, China abstained, and all other members voted in favor. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 21 appropriate security during such transport. As of June 2025, 165 countries were party to the CPPNM. The United States Senate unanimously approved a resolution of advice and consent to ratification of the convention on July 30, 1981.105 The United States subsequently advocated strengthening the treaty by extending controls to domestic security of nuclear materials . In July 2005, states parties convened to extend the convention’s scope in an amendment tha t cover s not only nuclear material in international transport, but also nuclear material in domestic use, storage, and transport, as well as the protection of nuclear material and facilities from sabotage. President George W. Bush submitted the amendment t o the Senate in September 2007, a nd the Senate approved a resolution of