by other nat ions. Teams from the nation hosting the observation flight fly along on the aircraft with the team conducting the observation. Each nation is assigned a quota of overflights that it can conduct and must be willing to receive each year. The quota is determi ned, generally, by the size of the nation’s territory. For the United States, this quota is equal to 42 observation flights per year. The t reaty permits the nations to use several types of sensors —including photographic cameras, infrared cameras, and synth etic aperture radars —during their observation fligh ts, although none have yet used synthetic aperture radars. The permitted equipment allow s the nations to collect basic information on military fo rces and activities, but it is not intended to provide them with detailed technical intelligence. For example, the resolution on the sensors would allow the nations to identify vehicles and distinguish between tanks and trucks, but probably will not allow them to tell one type of tank from another. Each observation flight produce s two sets of data —one for the observing nation and one for the observed nation. This allows the nation under observation to know what information was collected during the flight. Other parties to the treaty can purchase Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 49 copies of the data , so all parties can share in the information collected during all flights . Each nation is responsible for its own analysis of the data. The treaty allows the parties to update their cameras to take advantage of changes in technology, as long as the parties agree, by consensus, in the Open Skies Consultative Commission, to permit the use of the new systems. For example, because approved cameras that use film are no longer available , several countries are pursuing a transition to digital cameras . Russia has r ecently equipped is flights with new electro -optical (digital cameras), and Germany is in the process of transitioning and testing a similar system. The United States also outlined plans to make this change before it withdrew from the treaty. The capabilit ies of these cameras must remain within the photographic resolution permitted by the treaty, and they must use commercially available, unclassified technology. Consequently, they will not alter or improve the quality of the data collected during the flight s. However, some officials in the Pentagon and U.S. intelligence community have expressed concern about the transition to new cameras, arguing that the information could help Russia fill in gaps in its satellite surveillance capabilities. Implementation Although several of the participating nations conducted practice mi ssions in the years before the treaty entered into force, the first official overflight mission occurred in 2002. The parties conduct approximately 100 observation flights each year. In recen t years, the United States has received four to nine observation flights from Russia and has conducted 14 -16 flights over Russia each year, although there were no flights in