protect the nation’s interests and includes, for insta nce, protecting the lives and safety of Americans; maintaining U.S. sovereignty over its values, territory, and institutions; and promoting the nation’s well -being. The United States has wielded a deep and wide range of military, diplomatic, and economic t ools to protect and advance its security interests. These include, for instance, the deployment of military forces to deter, dissuade, persuade, or compel others; the formation of alliances and coalitions to advance U.S. interests and counter aggression; and the use of U.S. economic power to advance its agenda or promote democratization, or to impose sanctions or withhold U.S. economic support to condemn or punish states hostile to U.S. interests. In this context, arms control and nonproliferation efforts a re two of the tools that the United States has occasionally used to implement its national security strategy. The United States generally does not pursue these arrangements as ends in and of themselves, and many argue that they should not become more impor tant tha n the strategy behind them. But, in many cases, their effective employment can be critical to the success of that broader strategy. They can serve as a complement to, rather than a substitute for, military or economic efforts. Arms control has been broadly defined as “ all the forms of military cooperation between potential enemies in the interest of reducing the likelihood of war, its scope and violence if it occurs, and the political and economic costs of being prepared for it .”1 Effective arms co ntrol measures may enhance U.S. national security in a number of ways. For example, arms control agreements can include monitoring mechanisms that can provide early warning of efforts to evade or ignore the agreement’s obligations. These mechanisms can als o promote transparency in a way that may increase U.S. knowledge about and understanding of the size, make up, and operations of an opposing military force. This may not only ease U.S. military planning, but could also reduce an opponent’s incentives for an d opportunities to attack U.S. forces, or the forces of its friends and allies. Transparency and confidence -building measures may also build confidence among wary adversaries. Negotiators can also design arms control measures to complement U.S. force structure objectives by limiting or restraining U.S. and other countries’ forces. During times of declining defense budget resources, arms control measures may also help ensure reciprocity in force reductions. Indeed, some analysts consider such arms control measures essential to the success of national military objectives. 1 Thomas C. Schelling and Morton H. Halperin, Strategy and Arms Control (Twentieth Century Fund: New York, 1961), p. 2. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 2 Similarly, U.S. national security policy has sought to prevent the further spread of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction (WMD)2 and their means of delivery through a variety of non- and counter -proliferation tools . For one reason, proliferation can exacerbate regional tensions that might