-Türkiye Relations and Advancing Relations with Syria,” July 11, 2025. 17 See CRS Insight IN12473, Turkey (Türkiye) in Syria: Key U.S. Policy Issues , by Jim Zanotti and Clayton Thomas . 18 MEMRI Translation #11695, reviewed by CRS, Source - Al-Arabiya Network, December 29, 2024. 19 “‘We want change to be the basis for a new phase in Syria ’ Mazloum Abdi ,” Kurdistan24 (Iraq), January 28, 2025. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 9 Threats from the Islamic State and Other Extremists Persist , Evolve For the United States, SDF -government confrontation and the end of SDF control over large areas relevant to the fight against remaining Islamic State elements in Syria pose questions about the future of U.S. policy and military strategy . Immediate considerations have include d managing the withdrawal of SDF control over some prisons and camps housing IS prisoners and associated persons. To prevent the escape of high -value IS prisoners, the U.S. military worked with Syrian and Iraqi authorities to transfer more than 5,700 IS prisoners to neighbor ing Iraq, where they are expected to continue to await trial or return to their countries of origin . The unmanaged end of SDF control over an IS prison at Al Shaddadi and the large camp for IS -associated families at Al Hol led to the escape of hundreds of prisoners and camp residents with suspected IS ties.20 Syrian government authorities say they have recaptured most of the escaped IS prison ers, and they have closed the camp at Al Hol, transferring some of its former 20,000 -plus residents to camps in northwest Syria and releasing or losing track of others. U.S. officials and UN experts report that IS fighters, Al Qaeda -linked groups, and oth er extremists are exploit ing security conditions in Syria to reinvigorate their ranks and infiltrate urban areas and the ranks of government forces . According to m onitoring report s in July 2025 and February 2026 by the UN panel on Al Qaeda and the Islamic State , IS fighters acquired new weaponry as the former regime fell, “including anti -tank missiles, artillery, anti -aircraft systems and mortars, ... drones and related components.”21 These report s have estimat ed that of the “more than 5,000” foreign terror ist fighters assessed to remain in Syria , more than 3,500 are being integrated into new military units .22 According to UN member states cited in the report, IS fighters have “infiltrated newly formed security structures, particularly at the lower and mid -level ranks ,” including by exploiting weak identification and insignia standards and the continuing semiautonomous operations of some integrated armed groups.23 Extremist foreign fighters have been implicated in some instances of sectarian violence since ea rly 2025. Independent observers catalogued more than 100 attacks attributed to the Islamic State group in eastern and central Syria in 2025, including attacks on interim government forces and SDF forces.24 Most of these attacks occurred in Deir-ez-Zor governorate in eastern Syria, but some