Weapons Convention (CWC) bans the development, production, transfer, stockpiling, and use of chemical and toxin weapons ; mandates the destruction of all chemical weapons production facilities ; and seeks to control the producti on and international transfer of the key chemical components of these weapons. Negotiations on such a convention began in 1968 but made little progress for many years.120 Verification issues, in particular, stalled the talks until the Soviet Union accepted challenge inspections. In September 1992, the Conference on Disarmament agreed on the final draft for the convention, and it opened for signature in January 1993 . The treaty entered into force on April 29, 1997. As of June 2025, 193 countries are states parties to the convention. Israel has signed but not ratified the convention. Egypt, North Korea, and South Sudan have not signed the CWC. Under the convention, states parties provide declarations, which detail chemical weapons -related activities or material s and relevant industrial activities, to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW). The OP CW inspects and monitors states parties’ facilities and activities that are relevant to the convention. Limits and Restrictions Parties to the c onvention have agreed to cease all offensive chemical weapons research and production and close all relevant facilities. These states agreed to declare all chemical weapons stockpiles ; allow an inventory by international inspectors ; seal their stocks ; and, absent an OPCW -approved extension , destroy their weapons within 10 years. States parties must also destroy all chemical weapons production facilities within 10 years. In “exceptional cases of compelling need,” the OPCW may approve the conversion of such facilities to peaceful purposes. The CWC contains a complex verification regime, with different obligations applying to different types of c hemical facilities. The c onvention establishes three schedules of chemicals, grouped by relevance to chemical weapons production and extent of legitimate peaceful uses. Some facilities are subject to systematic on -site verification; others are subject to periodic verification inspections. Facilities for a third class of chemicals are subject to random or “ad hoc” inspect ions. Signatories may also request challenge inspections at facilities suspe cted to be in violation of the convention. The OPCW can carry out these inspections on short notice. Inspected states have the right to negotiate the extent of inspectors’ access t o any facility but must make every reasonable effort to confirm compliance.121 After the use of nerve agent on its territory, the UK called for a Special Session of the OPCW Executive Council in June 2018 to highlight the gravity of chemical weapons use and to call for giving investigators the mandate to attribute an attack when possible. CWC member states approved a decision that granted the OPCW the added authority to attribute chemical attacks under investigation.122 In addition, the CWC states in November 2019 adopted two decisions that amended Schedule 1 of the CWC’s Annex on Chemicals, adding two classes of nerve agents developed during the Cold War —the Novichok class of nerve agents