under the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) , or to eligible aliens without nationality w ho last habitually resided in the designated country. During the designation period, Temporary Protected Status beneficiaries are eligible to remain in the United States, may not be removed, and are authorized to work and obtain an Employment Authorization Document (EAD) so long as they continue to meet the requirements of Temporary Protected Status. 89 Additionally, a pproximately 250 or fewer Syrian nationals were affirmatively granted asylum in the United States in each of the fiscal years from 2021 to 2023. See U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Office of Homeland Security Statistics , Refugees: 202 4, August 12, 20 25; and Asylees: 2023 , October 2, 2024. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 23 U.S. Sanctions and Syria From 1979 to 2024 , the United States placed a broad array of sanctions on the gove rnment of Syria, Syrian entities and individuals, and third parties support ing certain Syrian government activities. The United States also imposed targeted sanctions on terrorist groups active in Syria and associated individuals. Successive Administrations and Congress es imposed and maintained these sanctions as a means of raising the costs to Syrian leaders of a number of policies they deemed hostile to U.S. national security, foreign p olicy, and economic interests . Specific sanctions actions were taken by different Administrations to address the Syrian government’s support for terrorism, its trade in weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missile technologies, its interference in nei ghboring Lebanon, and its conduct during the country’s 2011 -2024 conflict. Sanctions Relief and Remaining Authorities In January 2025, the Biden Administration issued a general license to allow for certain transactions in Syria through July 6, 2025, to in clude transactions with the government of Syria, transactions related to noncommercial personal remittances, and transactions in support of the sale, supply, storage, or donation of energy, including petroleum, petroleum products, natural gas, and electric ity. President Biden also issued Executive Order 14142, amending Executive Order 13894 (2019)90 to remove specific references to the government of Turkey and preserving provisions allowing the potential imposition of financial and travel sanctions on indiv iduals determined by the President to “threaten the peace, security, stability, or territorial integrity of Syria” ; or be involved in “the commission of serious human rights abuse” related to Syria. On May 13, 2025, President Trump said during a visit to S audi Arabia that his Administration was “exploring normalizing relations with Syria’s new government,” and said he would “be ordering the cessation of sanctions against Syria in order to give them a chance at greatness.”91 The Administration subsequently p rovided exemptive relief for sanctions on the Commercial Bank of Syria, issued a 180 -day waiver of sanctions in the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act of 2019 (“Caesar Act,” 22 U.S.C. §8791 note),92 and issued a general license (GL 25) that authorized certain transactions with Syria and designated individuals that would otherwise be prohibited under then-applicable sanctions