organizations, including the Islamic State, have used Syria “to plot or inspire external terrorist operations .”64 U.S. and partner force operations ended the Islamic State’s control of populated territories in Syria in March 2019, but remnants of the group have continued to operate from remote areas in central Syria and now reportedly have infiltrated urban areas across the 63 See, for example, U.S. State Department, Country Reports on Terrorism 2023: Syria, November 2024 ; and annual threat assessments of the Director of National Intelligence, 2014 -2024. 64 U.S. State Department, Country Reports on Terrorism 2023: Syria, November 2024. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 17 country . Through 2025, IS fighters attempted to break prisoners and family members out of U.S. partner -secured prisons and camps and attacked Syrian communities and U.S. partners. Syria’s transitional authorities have joined the Global Coalition to Defeat the Islamic State and, with reported intelligence support from the United States, have disrupted attempted IS attacks that could have exacerbated sectarian tensions in post -Asad Syria.65 U.S., UN, and other international officials have expressed concern about the presence in S yria of foreign terrorist fighters and the integration into Syrian security forces of foreign individuals and fighters. The transitional government has appointed foreign nationals to leadership roles in its security structures, and, according to UN reporti ng, “many tactical -level individuals hold more extreme views” than government leaders.66 Syrian authorities reportedly have argued that integrating anti -Asad fighters, including some foreign fighters, into national forces is preferable to dangers that migh t arise from their exclusion. U.S. Special Envoy for Syria Ambassador Tom Barrack reportedly said in June 2025 that the United States and Syria ha d reached “an understanding, with transparency” on the issue, after previous reports suggested U.S. urging of the transitional government to exclude foreign fighters.67 The Syrian government and some individuals and entities active in Syria remain subject to U.S. and UN terrorism sanctions (see “U.S. Sanctions and Syria ” below). Foreign Military Access and Basing. Since 2011, the presence and operations in Syria of foreign military forces from Russia, Iran, Turkey, Israel, and the United States and its partners have reflected the differing priorities and goals of outside actors in the country. U.S. policymakers may consider whether or how the c ontinued operations in Syria of U.S. and coalition forces, Turkish forces, Russian forces, and Israeli forces affect U.S. interests. U.S. officials also may monitor and seek to shape the policies of Syrian authorities toward these forces ; Syria’s interim leaders say they seek to establish normal diplomatic and security relationships with foreign countries — including their former Russian and Iranian adversaries —on the basis of mutual respect for sovereignty and noninterference. In a February 2025 interview, A hmed Al Sharaa said “any military presence should be with the agreement of the host state.”68 Weapons of Mass Destruction. The Asad government’s domestic use of chemical weapons against its armed opponents and civilians drew international condemnation and motivated U.S. military