U.S. militar y forces and activities, informal arrangements and guidelines that the United States has agreed to observe, and unilateral restraints on military forces and activities that the United States has adopted either on its own or in conjunction with reciprocal r estraints on other countries ’ forces and activities. Because these arms control and nonproliferation arrangements affect U.S. national security, military programs, force levels, and defense spending, Congress has shown a continuing interest in the implemen tation of existing agreements and the prospects for further negotiations. 2 See W. Seth Carus, Defining “Weapons of Mass Destruction,” National Defense University occasional paper 8, January 2012, https://ndupress.ndu.edu/ Portals/ 68/Documents/ occasional/ cswmd/ CSWMD_OccationalPaper -8.pdf . 3 See also CRS In Focus IF12735, U.S. Extended Deterrence and Regional Nuclear Capa bilities , by Anya L. Fink . 4 For background on the use of U.S. sanctions in proliferation cases , see CRS Report RL31502, Nuclear, Biological, Chemical, and Missile Proliferation Sanctions: Selected Current Law , by Dianne E. Rennack . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 3 Congress plays a key role in developing and enacting economic sanctions legislation against foreign governments for the proliferation of nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons and their delivery systems. Congress has also assessed executive branch implementation of export control laws. Members of Congress have also proposed and developed programs implemented by the executive branch to reduce nuclear and other WMD threats to U.S. national security. For example, a s the Soviet Union collapsed in late 1991, many Members of Congress grew concerned that deteriorating social and economic conditions would affect control over Soviet weapons of mass destruction , leading to loss of control or proliferation to other states or nonstate actors .5 Congress has provided funding and conducted oversight of these cooperative threat reduction and nonproliferation assistance programs over time, as their geographic scope has expanded worldwide and mission evolved to meet current threats .6 Key issues in this area that the 11 9th Congress might consider include Iran’s potent ial to develop nuclear weapons ; North Korea’s growing nuclear weapons and missile program s; U.S. civilian nuclear cooperatio n agreements; and tensions between India and Pakistan , as amplified by their nuclear weapons programs. Congress may also consider how cooperation under the international nonproliferation regimes can be leverag ed to prevent nuclear terrorism, how the United States could cooperate with allies and partners to mitigate the potential impacts of emerging technologies on international security, and whether and how the United States could engage with Russia and China on arms control or to otherwise reduce the risk of nuclear war. Congress will continue to examine budget requests for executive branch programs supporting U.S. implementation of treaty commitments, nonproliferation assistance to international partners, and counterproliferation measures, as well as fundi ng for international organizations implementing relevant treaties. Arms Control and Nonproliferation since the Cold War During the Cold War, arms control played a key role in the relationship between the United