government; Turkish and Syrian officials have exchanged high level visits and Turki sh military forces remain present in areas of northern Syria. Turkey’s stated principal concerns in Syria appear to relate to the presence and activities of PKK members in areas that have been controlled by the U.S. -backed SDF. Turkey may also harbor a bas ic opposition to the integration of SDF personnel and Kurdish -led administrative figures into Syrian state bodies and have enduring concerns about future attempts by Syrian Kurd s to seek greater autonomy. Turkey has offered military training and support t o Syria’s interim authorities, and Sharaa and other interim leaders have adopted positions on the future of the SDF, its integration with national forces, and the political future of northeast Syria that appear to align with Turkish preferences. In August 2025, Turkey and Syria signed a “joint training consultancy memorandum of understanding [MOU]” as an apparent step toward a substantive military cooperation deal.121 Turkish officials reportedly anticipate strengthening Syria’s regular army with arms and ot her forms of support in hopes of helping it establish long -term stability.122 While Turkish and Syrian officials apparently are discussing the potential deployment of Turkish troops to some Syrian bases, the MOU reportedly does not address that point.123 Additionally, Turkey reportedly plans to avoid providing any weapons that could provoke Israel given existing tensions.124 Closer Syrian -Turkish official ties and an expanded Turkish military presence in Syria may provide Turkey with greater regional infl uence, and could affect the perceptions and security calculations of Israel, Jordan, Iraq, and other Arab states. UN agencies report that there were more than 2. 3 million registered Syrian refugees in Turkey as of February 12 , 202 6.125 Arab States. Syria’s transitional authorities are actively pursuing engagement with Arab states, whose interests and motives may differ. For instance, Qatar may share Turkey’s comfort with Sharaa’s Islamist background , while Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Jordan, and the United Arab Emirates may harbor reservations. Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud facilitated Sharaa’s meeting in Saudi Arabia with President Trump and, via phone, with President Erdogan of Turkey, and the kingdom and the UAE have announced plans for l arge investments in Syria. Saudi Arabia and Qatar jointly paid Syria’s outstanding debt to the World Bank to enabl e new lending, and they have provided months of joint support for Syrian public sector salaries since mid -2025 . Iraq’s government invited Sharaa to attend the May Arab Summit in Baghdad, but he declined amid some Iraqi groups’ vocal opposition because of his past associations with Al Qaeda and the Islamic State group. Jordan and Syria have continued to exchange official visits and Jordan joined 120 Lior Ben Ari, “ Report in Syria: Russian military delegation toured Quneitra area ,” Ynet News , November 17, 2025. 121 Soylu, “ Turkey -Syria defence deal covers training and weapons supply .” 122 Ezgi Akin, “ After inking military pact, Turkey to provide Syria with weapons, training ,”