nuclear test ban treaty. The preamble contained three “Whereas” clauses of which the core one stated t hat amendments to treaties are subject to the constitutional process. The important distinction among the various conditions concerns their content or effect. Whatever designation the Senate applies to a condition, if the President determines that it may a lter an international obligation under the treaty, he transmits it to the other party or parties and further negotiations or abandonment of the treaty may result. 237 Congressional Record , May 27, 1988, p. S6883 . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 78 During its consideration of the SALT II Treaty, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee groupe d conditions into three categories to clarify their intended legal effect; (I) those that need not be formally communicated to or agreed to by the Soviet Union, (II) those that would be formally communicated to the Soviet Union, but not necessarily agreed to by them, and (III) those that would require the explicit agreement of the Soviet Union. In the resolution of ratification of the START Treaty, the Senate made explicit that some of the conditions were to be communicated to the other parties. The Senate approves most treaties without formally attaching conditions. Ten arms control treaties were adopted without conditions: the Antarctic, Outer Space, Nuclear Non -Proliferation, Seabed, ABM, Environmental Modification, and Peaceful Nuclear Explosions Treatie s, the Biological Weapons and the Nuclear Materials Conventions, and the ABM Protocol. In some of these cases, however, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee included significant understandings in its report. Even when it does not place formal conditions in the resolution of ratification, the Senate may make its views known or establish requirements on the executive branch in the report of the Foreign Relations Committee or through other vehicles.238 Such statements become part of the legislative history bu t are not formally transmitted to other parties. In considering the Limited Nuclear Test Ban Treaty in 1963, the Senate turned down a reservation that “the treaty does not inhibit the use of nuclear weapons in armed conflict,” but Senate leaders insisted u pon a written assurance on this issue, among others, from President Kennedy. In reporting the Nuclear Non - Proliferation Treaty, the committee stated that its support of the t reaty was not to be construed as approving security assurances given to the nonnuc lear-weapon parties by a UN Security Council resolution and declarations by the United States, the Soviet Union, and the United Kingdom. The security assurances resolution and declarations were, the committee reported, “solely executive measures.”239 For Fu rther Reading The Congressional Role in Arms Control. Part IX in Fundamentals of Nuclear Arms Control , Subcommittee on Arms Control, International Security and Science of Committee on Foreign Affairs Committee Print, December 1986. CRS Report No. 90 -548 F, Executive Agreements Submitted to Congress: Legislative Procedures Used Since 1970 . CRS Report No. 93 -276 F, Senate Approval of Treaties: A Brief Description