was delayed for several years during the 1990s, but it eventually received approval from both the U.S. Senate and Russian parliament. Nevertheless, it was overcome by events in 2002. START II Provisions START II would have limited each side to between 3,000 and 3,500 warheads; reductions initially were to occur by the year 2003 and would have been extended until 2007 if the nations had approved a new Protocol. It would have banned all MIRVed ICBMs and would have limited each side to 1,75 0 warheads on SLBMs. To comply with these limits the United States would have removed two warheads (a process known as “downloading”) from each of its 500 3 -warhead Minuteman III missiles and eliminated all launchers for its 50 10 -warhead MX missiles. The United States also stated that it would reduce its SLBM warheads by eliminating 4 Trident submarines and deploying the missiles on the 14 remaining Trident submarines with 5, rather than 8, warheads. Russia would have eliminated all launchers for its 10 -warhead SS -24 missiles and 10 -warhead SS -18 missiles. It would also have downloaded to a single warhead 105 6 -warhead SS -19 missiles, if it retained those missiles. It would also have eliminated a significant number of ballistic missile submarines, both for budget reasons and to reduce to START II limits. These changes would have brought Russian forces below the 3,500 limit because so many of Russia’s warheads are deployed on MIRVed ICBMs. As a result, many Russian officials and Duma members insisted that the United States and Russia negotiate a START III Treaty, with lower warhead numbers, so that Russia would not have to produce hundreds of new missiles to maintain START II levels. START II implementation would have accomplished the long -standing U.S. object ive of eliminating the Soviet SS -18 heavy ICBMs. The Soviet Union and Russia had resisted limits on these missiles in the past. Russia would have achieved its long -standing objective of limiting U.S. SLBM warheads, although the reductions would not have be en as great as those for MIRVed ICBMs. The United States had long resisted limits on these missiles, but apparently believed a 50% reduction was a fair trade for the complete elimination of Russia’s SS -18 heavy ICBMs. START II would have relied on the veri fication regime established by START, with a few new provisions. For example, U.S. inspectors would be allowed to watch Russia pour concrete into the SS-18 silos and to measure the depth of the concrete when Russia converted the silos to hold 215 See CRS Report R40084, Strategic Arms Control After START: Issues and Options , by Amy F. Woolf . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 57 smaller missi les. In addition, Russian inspectors could have viewed the weapons carriage areas on U.S. heavy bombers to confirm that the number of weapons the bombers are equipped to carry did not exceed the number attributed to that type