Syrian leaders’ calls for territorial integrity and the extension of state authority, while insist ing the new government protect all Syrian communities. President Trump has met with Ahmed Al Sharaa twice. On February 18, unnamed Administration officials reportedly said that th e roughly 1,0 00 U.S. military personnel remaining in Syria are preparing to leave within two months as part of a “conditions -based ” transition.1 Unnamed Syrian sources said the timeline could be as little as one month.2 The U.S. military has completed the transfer of more than 5,700 IS prisoners from Syria to Iraq and has withdr awn from two long -held outpost s. 1 Lara Seligman, “U.S. Is Withdrawing All Forces From Syria, O fficials Say,” Wall Street Journal , February 18, 2026. 2 Agence France Presse (AFP), “US forces to complete withdrawal from Syria within a month: sources to AFP,” February 23, 2026. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 2 Specific plans for the remaining U.S. presence in northeast Syria and the potential for ongoing U.S.-Syria security cooperation are uncertain. Figure 1. Syria: Areas of Influence Source: CRS using Combined Joint Task Force -Operation Inherent Resolve ( CJTF-OIR) reporting to Lead Inspector General, media and social media reporting , and E sri and U.S. State Department data. All areas of influence approximate and subject to change. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 3 Syria: Profile and Contemporary History The area that now comprises Syria was long ruled as part of the Ottoman Empire and was administered by France under a mandate of the League of Nations following the First World War. Its demographic diversity reflects its history over millennia as a regiona l crossroads and home to a variety of religious, ethnic, and linguistic communities. Contemporary Syria secured its independence as France ’s post-World War I mandate ended in the 1930s and 1940s; its early history as an independent state was marked by a se ries of Cold War -influenced coups and regional instability. The Baath (Renaissance) Party seized power in 1963. Wars with Israel in 1948, 1967, and 1973 ended in defeat and resulted in Israeli control of the Golan Heights region. Former president Bashar a l Asad’s father —Hafiz al Asad —ruled the country from 1970 until his death in 2000. The Asad family are members of the minority Alawite sect (estimated 15% of the population), which has its roots in Shiite Islam. The Asads cultivated Alawites as a base of support. The government violently suppressed an armed uprising led by the Muslim Brotherhood in the early 1980s, killing thousands from the majority Sunni Muslim community. After taking office in 2000, Bashar Al Asad offered and then retracted the prospect of limited political reform, while privileging family members and other Alawite supporters and aligning his government with Iran and Russia and with nonstate actors such as Hamas and Hezbollah in a complex rivalry with the United States and its Arab and no n-Arab allies (including Israel). Violence in northeast Syria