warheads from 104 SS -18 ICBMs in Kazakhstan were removed and returned to Russia and all the launchers in that nation have been destroyed. Ukraine has destroyed all the SS -19 ICBM and SS -24 ICBM launchers on its territory and returned all the warheads from those missiles to Russia. Belarus had also returned to Russia all 81 SS -25 missiles and warheads based on its territory by lat e November 1996. START Expiration The START Treaty expired in December 2009. According to the terms of the treaty, the parties could allow START to lapse, extend it without modification for another five years, or seek to modify the treaty before extending it for five -year intervals. The United States and Russia began, in 2006, to hold a series of discussions about the future of START, but, through the latter years of the Bush Administration, the two sides held sharply different views on what that future sho uld be. Russian officials believed that the two nations should replace START with a new treaty that would reduce the numbers of deployed warheads but contain many of the definitions, counting rules, and monitoring provisions of START. The Bush Administrati on rejected that approach; it noted that the new Mosco w Treaty (described below) called for further reductions in offensive nuclear weapons and it argued that many of the detailed provisions in START were no longer Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 56 needed because the United States and Russ ia were no longer enemies. The United States suggested that the two sides reaffirm their commitment to the Moscow Treaty, and add to it an informal monitoring regime that would extend some of the monitoring and verification provisions in START. Analysts ou tside government also suggested that the nations extend the monitoring provisions, at least through 2012, as the Moscow Treaty did not have its own verification regime. Some in the United States, however, object ed to this approach because some o f the monitoring provisions had begun to impinge on U.S. strategic weapons and missile defense programs. The Obama Administration altered the U.S. approach and decided to negotiate a new t reaty that would replace START (this is discussed in more detail below).215 The United States and Russia began these discussions in April 2009, but were unable to complete them before START expired on December 5, 2009 . As is noted, below, they did complete a New START Treaty in April 2010. START II The United States and Russia signed the second START Treaty, START II, on January 3, 1993, after less than a year of negotiations. The Treaty never entered into force . Its consideration was delayed for several years during the 1990s, but it eventually received approval from both the U.S. Senate and Russian parliament. Nevertheless, it was overcome by events in 2002. START II Provisions START II would have limited each side to between 3,000 and 3,500 warheads; reductions initially were to occur