transitional leaders.30 Hurras al Din, an Al Qaeda -linked group, claimed to have dissolved, but UN monitors assess that it remains “active” with an “undiminished” commitment to Al Qaeda and up to 1,000 fighters organized in a “c overt, decentralized structure with cells across all Syrian governorate s,” including cells “pre -positioned” in southern Syria.31 Syria’s transitional government has formally joined the U.S. -led Global Coalition to Defeat the Islamic State and has conduct ed operations, including some joint operations with U.S. forces , against IS targets. U.S. raids in northern Syria in July and August 2025 reportedly killed individuals playing senior roles in IS operations in Syria.32 An Islamist extremist attack in December 2025 killed two U.S. servicemembers and a U.S. civilian translator engaged in counter -IS operations. U.S. forces responded to the December 2025 IS attack on U.S. personnel with a campaign of joint airstrikes with Jordan’s air force on a number of IS targets, and follow - on raids resulted in the death and capture of IS personnel.33 Sectarian Violence Threaten s Transition , Draws Intervention Several instances of sectarian violence involving members of minority communities, Syrian security forces, nonstate armed groups, and armed vigilantes threatened Syria’s stability in 2025 . Aggr avating factors included t he Syrian government’s imperfect command and control mechanisms , extremists’ presence in some security force units and other armed groups , the proliferation of arms among the population, and volatile , conflict -fueled communal tensions . Social media dynamics , misinformation, and foreign intervention have exacerbated conditions further . Transitional leaders’ rhetoric and some government actions have prioritized de -escalation and civilian protection, and the government ha s created bodies that have undertaken fact -finding investigations and are pursuing legal accountability for some perpetrators. The dynamics of integrating or demobilizing armed Islamist fighters and ensuring their respect for command and control and for th e rights of civilians pose fundamental security and political challenges for Syrian authorities. In monitoring the situation and engaging U.S. officials and Members of Congress, some observers have focused on the government’s failure to prevent violations against civilians, 27 “ISIS and Rebel Offshoots Challenge the Al -Sharaa Administration’s Security Grip,” Syria Report , May 28, 2025. 28 “ISIS Lashes Out at Syria ’s Sharaa, Announces ‘New Phase of Operations ,’” Al Sharq Al Awsat , February 23, 2026; and Reuters, “Islamic State kills four security personnel in Syria, state news agency says,” Reuters, February 23, 2026. 29 UN Document S/2026/44, February 4, 2026. 30 UN Document S/ 2026/44, February 4, 2026. 31 UN Document S/2026/44, February 4, 2026. 32 Reuters, “US forces conduct raid in northern Syria against ISIS targets, in second since Assad’s overthrow,” August 20, 2025. 33 U.S. Central Command, “CENTCOM Forces Remove ISIS Operatives in Syria After Large -Scale Strike,” December 30, 2025. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 11 including violations by government units or government -aligned actors. Others have noted attacks on government forces and civilians perpetrated by some minority