exchange information on relevant export licensing issues, including denials of technology transfers. The MTCR has neither an independent means to verify whether states are adhering to it s guidelines nor a mechanism to penalize states if they violate them. Analysts credit the MTCR with slowing missile development in Brazil and India ; blocking a cooperative missile program of Argentina, Egypt, and Iraq ; and eliminating missile programs in South Africa and Hungary. Moreover, partner countries have tightened their export control laws and procedures, and several have taken legal action against alleged missile -technology smugglers . However, some participating governments have export ed ballistic and cruis e missile technology; Russia has exported technology to Iran , and the United Kingdom has done so to the United Arab 189 The AG’s Common Control Lists include chemical weapons precursors, dual -use chemic al manufacturing facilities and equipment and related technology and software, dual -use biological equipment and related technology and software, human and animal pathogens and toxins, and plant pathogens. Australia Group Secretariat, Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, https://www.dfat.gov.au/ publications/ minisite/ theaustraliagroupnet/ site/en/ controllists.html . 190 See https://www.dfat.gov.au/ publications/ minisite/ theaustraliagroupnet/ site/en/index.html for AG website. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 41 Emirates. In addition, many analysts have argued that advances in missile -related technology will challenge the MTCR’s future abili ty to check missile proliferation. Since 1987, the number of MTCR partners has grown from seven to 35, with India joining the regime in 2016 .191 Several non partners, including China, Israel, Romania, and Slovakia , have declared that they adhere to MTCR provisions. Membership in the regime is decided by consensus. According to former MTCR Chairman Per Fischer, “[p]otential members are reviewed on a case -by case basis, and decisions regarding applications are based on the effectiveness of a state’s export controls … its potential contribution to the regime and its proliferation record.”192 The MTCR guidelines193 call on each partner country to exercise restraint when considering transfers of equipment or technology, as well as “intangible” transfers, that wo uld provide, or help a recipient country build, a missile capable of delivering a 500 kilogram warhead to a ran ge of at least 300 kilometers . The 500 kilogram weight threshold was intended to limit transfers of missiles that could carry a relatively crude nuclear warhead. A 1993 addition to the guidelines calls for particular restraint in the export of any missiles or related technology if the nation controlling the export judges that the missiles are intended to be used for the delivery of weapons of mass destruction (nuclear, chemical, or biological). Thus , some missiles with warheads weighing less than 500 kilograms also fall under MTCR guidelines. Regime partners update the MTCR guidelines and annex. The MTCR annex contains two categories of controlled i tems. Category I items are the most sensitive. There is “a strong presumption to deny such transfers,” according to the MTCR guidelines. Category -I systems “are recognized through