raw or reviewed data provided by the International Data Centre in the event bulletins, they may request special processing and analysis from the IDC. Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zones (NWFZs) Several regions of the world have treaties in force that ban the development, deployment, and use of nuclear weapons, known as nuclear -weapon -free zones, including Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco), Central Asia (Treaty on a Nuclear -Weapon -Free Zone in Central Asia), the South Pacific (Treaty of Rarotonga), Africa (Treaty of Pelindaba), and Southeast Asia (Treaty of Bangkok). Mongolia has declared itself a single -state Nuclear -Weapon -Free Zone.85 For decades, countries have discussed the establis hment of a Middle East WMD -free zone.86 Also, the Treaty of Antarctica established that Antarctica will be used for peaceful uses only. Nuclear weapons are also banned on the seabed, in outer space, and on the moon by international treaties. The nuclear -weapon -free zones (NWFZs) reinforce the undertakings of NPT nonnuclear -weapon state members and give confidence at a regional level that states are not seeking nuclear weapons. Each treaty has protocols for nuclear weapon states to ratify. These pr otocols are pledges that the nuclear weapon states will not base nuclear weapons in the zone, test nuclear weapons in the zone, or use or threaten to use nuclear weapons against the countries in the zone. The “negative security assurance” provided to membe rs of the zone through the nuclear weapon state protocol is considered one of the key benefits of membership for nonnuclear weapon states. Some NWFZ 83 CTBTO , Overview of the Verification Regime , https://www.ctbto.org/ verification -regime/ background/ overview -of- the-verification -regime/ . 84 CTB TO, Station Profiles , https://www.ctbto.org/ verification -regime/ station -profiles/ . 85 In September 2012, the five nuclear weapon states recognized Mongolia as a single -state nuclear -weapon -free zone by signing parallel declarations formally acknowledging this status. U.S. Department of State, “Five Permanent UN Representatives Support Mongolia’s Nuclear -Weapons -Free Status,” Media Note, September 18, 2012, https://2009 - 2017.state.gov/ r/pa/prs/ps/2012/ 09/197873.htm . 86 For background, see United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, Middle East WMD -Free Zone website, https://unidir.org/ programme/ middle -east-weapons -of-mass -destruction -free-zone . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 17 Protocols signed by the United States were submitted to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, where they remain on the calendar, as detailed below.87 Latin American NWFZ. The United States signed the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco) in May 26, 1977. The Senate gave its advice and consent to ratification of Protocol 1 and 2 of the Treaty of Tlatelolco in 1981 and 1971, respectively.88 African NWFZ and South Pacific NWFZ . The Obama Administration, as pledged at the 2010 NPT Review Conference, submitted the Protocols to the Treaties of Pelindaba (Africa) and Rarotonga (South Pacific) to the Senate for advice and consent for ratification on May 2, 2011.89 The United States signed the protocols at the time these