HTS security cooperatio n with Turkey and HTS leaders’ emphasis on local security and administration. These elements split from HTS, forming Hurras Al Din (Guardians of Religion). In 2025, U.S. military strikes continue d to target Hurras Al Din members. HTS established the Syrian Salvation Government in Idlib to administer limited services and provide governance. HTS at times clashed with groups operating under the Turkey -backed Syrian National Army coalition, but coordi nated with them and other Islamist armed groups under a security mechanism known as the Fatah al Mubin (Clear Victory) Operations Room. This network, in coordination with Turkey’s armed forces, resisted pro -Asad forces’ efforts to retake Idlib province. Th e arrangements were the precursor to the Military Operations Department that launched the “Deterring Aggression” operation from Idlib in November 2024 that seized Aleppo, Homs, and Hama, and ultimately toppled the Asad regime. 139 U.S. State Department, “Terrorist Designations of the al -Nusrah Front as an Alias for al -Qa'ida in Iraq,” December 11, 2012. 140 France24 /Agence France Presse (AFP), “ Syria ’s al Nusra militants vow allegiance to al Qaeda ,” April 10, 2013. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service RL33487 · VERSION 183 · UPDATED 37 Author Information Christopher M. Blanchard Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.