possible, to reduce national holdings of such missiles.” Subscribing states also agree not to assist ballistic missile programs in countries suspected of developing WMD. In addition, the code calls for subscribing states to “exercise the necessary vigilance” when assisting other countries’ space -launch programs, which could serve as covers for ballistic missile programs. Subscribing states “resolve to implement” seve ral transparency measures, such as producing annual declarations that provide outlines of their ballistic missile policies, as well as “information on the number and generic class” of such missiles launched during the preceding year. The c ode also calls on subscribing states to provide similar annual declarations regarding their “expendable Space Launch Vehicle” programs. Furthermore, the HCOC calls on states to “exchange pre - launch notifications on their Ballistic Missile and Space Launch Vehicle launches and test flights.” Signatories are required to provide such notifications to Austria, which serves as the Immediate Central Contact and Executive Secretariat for the HCOC. The Wassenaar Arrangement In July 1996, 33 governments approved the Wassenaar Arran gement on Export Controls for Conventional Arms and Dual -Use Goods and Technol ogies arms and dual -use goods and technologies. This agreement replace d the Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls —the Cold War organization that controlled sens itive exports of technologies to Communist countries . According to its Guidelines and Procedures, the Wassenaar Arrangement is not formally targeted a t “any state or group of states” but is “intended to enhance co -operation to prevent the acquisition of ar maments and sensitive dual -use items for military end -uses, if the situation in a region or the behavior of a state is, or becomes, a cause for serious concern.”196 The arrangement’s stated purpose is “to contribute to regional and international security an d stability, by promoting transparency and greater responsibility in transfers of conventional arms and dual -use goods and technologies, thus preventing destabilizing accumulations.” Decisions by the 42 participating states are made by consensus. The a rrang ement’s guidelines specify several factors for participants to consider when deciding on a potential new participant . These factors include whether the state has adopted the arrangement’s control lists “as a reference in its national export controls,” the government’s “adherence to fully effective export controls,” and whether the state adheres to several other multilateral agreements.197 Participating states agree to control exports and retransfers of items on a Munitions List and a List of Dual -Use Goods and Te chnologies; the latter includes a Sensitive List and a Very Sensitive 195 See https://www.hcoc.at . 196 The Arrangement’s Guidelines and Procedures are available at https://www.wassenaar. org/best-practices/ . 197 These agreements include the guidelines for the Nuclear Suppliers Group, the Zangger Committee, the Missile Technology Control Regime, and the Australia Group. They also include the Nuclear Non -Proliferation Treaty, the Biologic al and Toxicological Weapons Convention, and the Chemical Weapons Convention. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 43 List. The decision to allow or deny