13 Contacts Author Information ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................ 14 Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 1 Overview In 2026, Egypt is experiencing a period of relative economic growth and revived regional relevancy as the Trump Administration looks to Egypt (and others) to help stabilize Gaza. A fter several years of economic disrupti on and a balance of payments crisis caused by both domestic policies and international events, Egypt’s debt crisis has eased due to outside economic support from international financial institutions and Arab Gulf stat es. The Egypt ian economy , according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), is now “showing signs of robust growth ”1 with Gross Domestic Product (GDP) expected to grow 4.7% in 2026. Although today its government may play a smaller political or military role in the Arab world than it has in the past, Egypt may retain some “soft power” by virtue of its demographic weight, history, media, and culture. Cairo hosts both the 22 -member Arab League and Al Azhar University, which claims to b e the oldest continuously operating university in the world and has symbolic importance as a leading source of Islamic scholarship. Regionally, Egypt is still surrounded by neighboring states/territories beset by internal strife , with the civil war in Sud an a particular cause of concern for Egyptian authorities . Some conflict along its land and sea borders has abated , but conditions in Libya and the Red Sea region remain tenuous. President Donald Trump’s September 2025 20 -point plan regarding Gaza’s future and the ensuing October 2025 ceasefire between Israel and Hamas has presented the Egyptian government with an opportunity to play a key role in aiding new Gazan governance and security entities, such as the National Committee for the Administration of Gaz a (NCAG) , the Gazan Police Force, and the International Security Force (ISF) . In the Red Sea, attacks by the Houthis in Yemen against commercial shipping have currently ceased and, while maritime traffic through the Suez Canal (a key source of revenue for the Egyptian government ) has not returned to pre - October 2023 levels, it is slowly rebounding.2 Despite these trends, Egypt faces a number of internal and external challenges which will most likely keep it relegated to playing a more limited role in international affairs. At home, o ver the past five years, inflation, multiple currency depreciations, and spiraling budget deficits have all eroded the purchasing power of the average Egyptian consumer. As a result, the government will continue to grapple with how to expend scarce public resources while maintaining an economic system which depresses private sector investment in favor of military -owned industries.3 Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al Sisi , who is serving his third and constitutionally proscribed final term (ends in 2030), originally hails from the military, which, since 1952, has largely served as the bedrock of the country’s ruling elite. Egypt’s military has long taken an active role in the nation’s economy, competing with private sector compani