has used non -military means, such as increased economic development in the Sinai, in an effort to win support among the local population. In 2021, the government inaugurated in northern Sinai the world’s largest agri cultural wastewater treatment plant, as part of a national initiative to develop the area and optimize the use of water resources.35 The Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt. Since its founding in 1928, the Muslim Brotherhood (MB) has been one of Egypt’s strongest political movements. Its stated purpose is to turn Egypt toward government based on sharia (religious) law and Islamic principles. In its nearly century -long history, the MB has at times used violence against the Egyptian state, and several Egyptian terror ist organizations have splintered from the main movement.36 Over the years, the Egyptian government has alternated between tolerating and suppressing the Brotherhood. Since the military’s 2013 ouster of then -President Mohammed Morsi, the group has been outlawed in Egypt and its members banned from participation in politics. In late 2013, Egyptian authorities declared the MB a terrorist organization, effectively criminalizing membership in the group. Some MB members were already imprisoned, while others fle d the country, primarily to Turkey, the United Kingdom, and Qatar. In Turkey, MB members established media outlets critical of President al Sisi; as Egyptian -Turkish relations have improved (beginning around 32 Annual Report of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, March 2025. 33 See archived CRS Insight IN10827, Egypt: Terrorist Attack in the Sinai Peninsula . 34 Mada Masr , “Meet the newly remade Union of Sinai Tribes, the force taking over the fight in Sinai,” May 24, 2022. 35 Arab News , “El-Sisi inaugurates world’s largest wastewater treatment plant,” September 28, 2021. 36 Associated Press (AP), “What to know about the Muslim Brotherhood after the US terrorist designation,” January 13, 2025. Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 10 2022 -2023), Egypt has sought Turkish cooperation in shutting down MB broadcast media in Turkey.37 U.S. Muslim Brotherhood Terrorist Designation. For over a decade, some U.S. lawmakers have sought, through legislation and other means, to sanction the Brotherhood and its supporters, and some have pressed the executive branch to designate the group as an FTO.38 During the first Trump Administration, reports suggested that U.S. officials considered doing so.39 In January 2026, several months after President Trump issued an Executive Order ( E.O.) focused on the Muslim Brotherhood, the Department of the Treasury designated the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood (alongside other groups) as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT) under E.O. 13224 (2001), citing ties to Hamas, a U.S. -designated FTO an d SDGT.40 The Egyptian government praised the designation, asserting that it “validates” Egypt’s approach to the Brotherhood.41 Some U.S. state governments also have declared the MB a terrorist organization under state laws.42 Some h uman rights groups have asserted in the past that a State Department designation of the MB as an FTO would “wrongly equate it with violent extremist groups” and would “threaten the rights to association