control over areas of eastern Syria that until January 2026 were under the control of the Autonomous Administration of North and East Syria (AANES) and the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) . The diverse, resource -rich, and strateg ically located region has been the focal point of U.S. efforts to defeat the Islamic State group since 2015 and is critical to the security of Syria and of neighboring Turkey and Iraq. In March 2025, the SDF signed an agreement on integrating with national security forces by the end of 2025. In subsequent talks with national leaders, t he SDF and AANES sought guarantees of constitutional rights amid threats from the Islamic State and concerns about sectarian violence. Turkey and the Syrian transitional gover nment oppose d autonomy for SDF -held areas, with Turkish concerns focus ed on SDF links to the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), a U.S. -designated terrorist group that is implementing plans to disband.14 As the end of 2025 deadline approached, progress on imple menting the March 2025 integration agreement faltered, and clashes between the SDF and the government preceded the government’s advance on SDF -held areas . Under the terms of agreement s reached in January 2026 to end fighting between SDF and government for ces, the government and local authorities in the northeast are proceeding with the implementation of “an understanding on a phased integration process for the military and administrative forces between the two sides.”15 Specifically, the agreement s call fo r “the formation of a military brigade comprising three regiments from SDF forces” along with a regiment for forces in Kobani/Ayn al Arab under the authority of the Aleppo Governorate military command. The agreement s also call for “the integration of self -administration [AANES] institutions within the Syrian state institutions, with the retention of civilian employees” and provide for “settling the civil and educational rights of the Kurdish community, and ensuring th e return of the displaced to their areas.” In conjunction with negotiations and fighting that preceded the January 2026 agreement s, President Sharaa issued Presidential Decree 13 establishing Kurdish as a national language, providing for Kurdish language education, and invalidating laws that stripped citizenship from 12 Patricia Karam, “Prospects for Syria’s Democratization Under Ahmed al -Sharaa,” Arab Center Washington DC, November 21, 2025. 13 UN Deputy Special Envoy for Syria Najat Rochdi Briefing to the UN Security Council, October 22, 2025 . 14 In a July 2025 briefing, U.S. Ambassador to Turkey and Special Envoy for Syria Tom Ba rrack said, “ SDF is YPG [Kurdish acronym for People’s Defense Units, a Syrian Kurdish militia] . YPG is a derivative of PKK …. But this is a huge thing in Türkiye, right. The PKK -Türkiye dilemma is really complicated. And YPG was a spinoff of PKK that we allied with to fight ISIS. ” State Department, “ Strengthening U.S. -Türkiye Relations and Advancing Relations with Syria ,” July 11, 2025. In May 2025, a PKK congress decided to disband the PKK and end