Arms Control , Subcommittee on Arms Control, International Security and Science of Committee on Foreign Affairs Committee Print, December 1986. CRS Report No. 90 -548 F, Executive Agreements Submitted to Congress: Legislative Procedures Used Since 1970 . CRS Report No. 93 -276 F, Senate Approval of Treaties: A Brief Description with Examples from Arms Control . Treaties and Other International Agreements: The Role of the Uni ted States Senate , Senate Foreign Relations Committee Print, November 1993. 238 For a discussion of methods by which Congress influences arms contr ol negotiations, see House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Fundamentals of Nuclear Arms Control . Part IX —The Congressional Role in Nuclear Arms Control. Prepared for the Subcommittee on Arms Control, International Security, and Science by the Congressional R esearch Service. June 1986. 239 Senate. Executive Report 91 -1, March 6, 1969. 91st Cong ., 1st sess. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 79 Appendix C. Selected U.S. Laws240 The main legislative pillars of U.S. nuclear nonproliferation policy are the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended by the Nuclear Nonproliferation Act of 1978, and the Arms Export Control Act of 1968. The Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (AEA)241 The Atomic Energy Act of 1954 established legal authority for the commercial and military development of nuclear energy. It gave primary authority for the development and oversight of the U.S. government’s nuclear programs to a civilian agency: the Atomic Energy Commission (now the Nuclear Regulatory Commission). In 1974, these duties were divided between the NRC and the Department of Energy. A major purpose of the act was to establish controls on the export of nuclear materials, goods, information, and technology. Under the AEA, the State Department must negotiate an agreement for nuclear cooperation as a precondition for exports of sensitive U.S. nu clear technology to any foreign country. Each agreement must meet several standards outlined in the AEA. Moreover, the act contains penalties and restrictions for countries that do not uphold the terms of nuclear agreements with the United States. Congress reviews all such agreements before they can enter into force. The Nuclear Non -Proliferation Act of 1978 (NNPA)242 Congress and the Carter Administration viewed U.S. leadership and control over the international nuclear fuel cycle as an effective means of r estraining the spread of uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing facilities throughout the world. Enrichment and reprocessing technologies are key technologies for states aspiring to develop nuclear weapons. While reaffirming the U.S. commitment to b e a reliable supplier of nuclear technology and fuels, the act established an important new requirement for nations importing U.S. nuclear technology and materials: they must accept full -scope safeguards on their entire nuclear program. This standard was a dopted by NSG members in 1992. The act also established a requirement of prior U.S. approval for retransfers or reprocessing of material or equipment , as well as to material produced using U.S. - exported technology. These measures gave the United States