systems.219 The parties will also exchange a vast amount of data about those forces, specifying not only their distinguishing characteristics, but also the ir precise locations and the number of warheads deployed on each deployed delivery vehicle. They will notify each other, and update the database, whenever they move forces between declared facilities. The treaty also requires the parties to display their f orces, and allows each side to participate in exhibitions, to confirm information listed in the database. Under New START , each party can conduct up to 18 short -notice, on-site inspections each year; both sides used this full quota of inspections during t he three years of the treaty’s implementation. 219 U.S. State Department, Bureau of Verification, Compliance and Implementation, Telemetry , Fact Sheet, Washington, DC, April 8, 2010. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 65 The treaty divides these into Type One inspections and Type Two inspections. Each side can conduct up to 10 Type One inspections and up to 8 Type Two inspections. Moreover, during each Type One inspection, the parties will be able to perform two different types of inspection activities —these are essentially equivalent to the data update inspections and reentry vehicle inspections in the original START Treaty. As a result, the 18 short -notice inspections permitt ed under New START are essentially equivalent to the 28 short -notice inspections permitted under START. Relationship Between Offensive and Defensive Weapons In the Joint Understanding signed at the Moscow summit in July 2009, the United States and Russia a greed that the new treaty would contain a “provision on the interrelationship of strategic offensive arms and strategic defensive arms.” This statement, which appears in the preamble to New START, states that the parties recognize “the existence of the int errelationship between strategic offensive arms and strategic defensive arms, that this interrelationship will become more important as strategic nuclear arms are reduced, and that current strategic defensive arms do not undermine the viability and effecti veness of the strategic offensive arms of the parties.” Russia and the United States each issued unilateral statements when they signed New START that clarified their positions on the relationship between New START and missile defenses. Russia indicated th at it might exercise its right to withdraw from the treaty if the United States increased the capabilities of its missile defenses “in such a way that threatens the potential of the strategic nuclear forces of the Russian Federation.” The United States res ponded by noting that its “missile defense systems are not intended to affect the strategic balance with Russia. The United States missile defense systems would be employed to defend the United States against limited missile launches, and to defend its dep loyed forces, allies and partners against regional threats.” Officials from the Obama Administration testified to the Senate and repeatedly emphasized that these statements did not impose any obligations on either the United States or Russia and would not result in any