needs? To what extent, and h ow, are such needs being assessed and met? • What resources and partners are engaging to provide support to Syria ? • What support, if any, should the United States provide? Using what authorities, resources, and mechanisms? For how long, on what terms, and at what cost? Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 35 Appendix. Hayat Tahrir al Sham (HTS): Leadership, Insurgency, Terrorism, and Governance Ahmed Hussein Al Sharaa was born in 1982 to a Syrian family from Damascus.136 According to Sharaa, his family lived in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia and returned to Syria when he was seven. Sharaa has said his grandfather was displaced from the Golan Heights amid Israel -Syria fighting during the June 1967 Six -Day War: Sharaa apparently adopted the nom de guerre Abu Mohammed al Jolani/Jawla ni/Golani in reference to his family’s roots in that area. Sharaa has said he travelled to Iraq in 2003, arriving just prior to the U.S. invasion, and that, after a brief return to Syria, he again travelled to Iraq in 2005 and joined the organization that would become Al Qaeda in Iraq (AQI). Sharaa claims he differed with the group’s anti -Shia Muslim sectarian ideology and targeting of civilians, but Sharaa remained an AQI member and, according to a former U.S. intelligence official, he led an AQI cell.137 U.S. forces arrested Sharaa around 2005 or 2006, and imprisoned him in Camp Bucca in southern Iraq until late 2010 or early 2011, when he was released.138 Sharaa reportedly used a false identity while in Iraq. Sharaa says he used his time in prison to develo p plans for toppling the Syrian government. Upon Sharaa’s release, he sought out former associates, who were then organized and operating as the Islamic State of Iraq (ISI). Sharaa has said that a fter the start of the anti - Asad uprising in Syria in 2011, h e shared his plans for waging an insurgency in Syria with AQI/ISI leader Abu Bakr al Baghdadi. Sharaa said Baghdadi agreed to provide limited support, and Sharaa departed Iraq for Syria with funding and 136 Biographical and historical information drawn from: Frontline , “The Frontline Interviews: The Jihadist ,” June 1, 2021; Raya Jalabi, “ The secret history of Syria’s new leader, Ahmed al -Sharaa ,” FT Magazine , March 7, 2025; Aaron Zelin, in terview with John Haltiwanger, “What to Know About the Man Who Toppled Assad, Foreign Policy , December 11, 2024; Zelin, “Jihadi ‘Counterterrorism:’ Hayat Tahrir al -Sham Versus the Islamic State,” U.S. Military Academy Combatting Terrorism Center (CTC), CTC Sentinel , February 2023; Hassan Hassan, “Two Houses Divided: How Conflict in Syria Shaped the Future of Jihadism,” CTC Sentinel , October 2018; and Charles Lister, “How al - Qa`ida Lost Control of its Syrian Affiliate: The Inside Story,” CTC Sentinel , Februa ry 2018. 137 PBS Frontline Interview with Nada Bakos, Frontline , “The Frontline Interviews: The Jihadist ,” June 1, 2021. 138 Sharaa reportedly was detained