But at the time when Europe was eme rging from the East -West divide of the Cold War, the United States supported increased transparency throughout Europe as a way to reduce the chances of military confrontation and to build confidence among the participants. On March 24, 1992, the United St ates, Canada , and 22 European nations signed the t reaty on Open Skies. Canada and Hungary served as the treaty depositary states. The U.S. Senate gave its advice and consent to the ratification of the Open Skies Treaty in August 1993 , but Russia and Belaru s delayed their ratification until M ay 2001. The treaty entered into force on January 1, 2002. Until the United States withdrew from Open Skies in late 2020, the treaty had 34 participating member states. In early 2021, Russia announced that it planned to withdraw as well. The treaty parties conducted more than 1,500 observation flights since the treaty entered into force. When signing the treaty, they agreed to permit unarmed aircraft to conduct observation flights over their entire territories. Although the flights often focus ed on military activities, the information they gather ed was not intended to be used to verify compliance with limits in other arms control agr eements. Instead, Open Skies served as a confidence -building measure , to promote openness and enhance mutual understanding about military activities. It was designed to allow all nations, including those without access to satellites, to col lect information on military forces and activities of other parties to the treaty and to gain an improved understanding of military activities in other nations. Overflights may provide early signs of efforts to build up military forces or, conversely, assu rances that an adversary or neighbor is not preparing its military for a possible conflict. In addition, the treaty helped nations in Europe observe and monitor Russian forces in areas near its border with Ukraine. The Provisions of Open Skies The parties to the Open Skies Treaty have agreed to make all of their territory accessible to overflights by unarmed fixed wing observation aircraft. They can restrict flights over areas, such as nuclear power plants, where safety is a concern, but they cannot impede or prohibit flights over any area, including critical infrastructure or military installations that are considered secret or otherwise off -limits. In most cases, the nation conducting the observation flight will provide the aircraft and sensors for the fli ght. How ever, Russia insisted that the t reaty permit the observed country to provide the aircraft if it chose to do so. Nations can also team up to conduct overflights to share the costs of the effort or use aircraft and sensor suites provided by other nat ions. Teams from the nation hosting the observation flight fly along on the aircraft with the team conducting the observation. Each nation is assigned a quota of overflights that it can conduct and must be willing to receive each year. The quota is determi ned, generally, by