President can rescind a determination or waive sanctions if essential to the national security interests of the United States. • Section 101 (22 U.S.C. 2799aa) (formerly S ection 669 of t he Foreign Assistance Act) prohibits foreign economic or military assistance to countries that deliver or receive nuclear enrichment equipment, materials, or technology unless the supplier agrees to place such under safeguards and the recipient has full -scope safeguards. The President, who makes the determination, can waive sanctions if they will have a serious adverse effect on vital U.S. interests, given assurances that the recipient will not acquire, develop, or assist others in acquiring or developing n uclear weapons. • Section 102 (22 U.S.C. 2799aa -1) (formerly S ection 670 of the Foreign Assistance Act) prohibits foreign economic or military assistance to countries that deliver or receive nuclear reprocessing equipment, material, or technology to or from another country; or any nonnuclear -weapon state that illegally exports from the United States items that would contribute to nuclear proliferation. The President, who makes the determination, can waive the sanction if he finds that ending assistance would adversely affect U.S. nonproliferation objectives or jeopardize the common defense and security. The section further prohibits assistance (except humanitarian or food assistance), defense sales, export licenses for U.S. Munitions List items, other export l icenses subject to foreign policy controls, and various credits and loans to any country that the President has determined transfers a nuclear explosive device, design information, or component to a nonnuclear -weapon s state, or is a nonnuclear -weapon s stat e and receives a nuclear device, design information, or component, or detonates a nuclear explosive device. 243 P.L. 90 -629, 22 U.S.C. 2751. Title 22 of the U.S. Code , Chapter 39, addresses Arms Export Control. Subchapter VII addresses control of missiles and missile exports or technology . Subchapter VIII addresses chemical weapons and biological weapons, and subchapter X addresses nuclear nonproliferat ion controls. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 81 Much of the language on nuclear nonproliferation controls that had been incorporated into the Foreign Assistance Act earlier (including the 1977 Glenn -Symington amendments on enrichment and reprocessing and the 1985 Pressler amendment related to Pakistan) were incorporated into the AECA in 1994 by the Nuclear Proliferation Prevention Act (see discussion below). Export Administration Act of 1979 (EA A) The Export Administration Act of 1979 ( P.L. 96 -72) authorizes the executive branch to regulate private sector exports of particular goods and technology to other countries . Although the act most recently expired in 2001 , export controls have been implemented under executive orders and the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA).244 The EAA coordinates such actions with other foreign policy considerations, includi ng nonproliferation, and determines eligibility of recipients for exports. Section 5 (50 U.S.C. app. 2404) authorizes the President to curtail or prohibit the export of any goods or services for national security reasons: to comply with other laws regardi ng