” PPD -37. The DOD memorandum permitted Combatant Commanders to authorize the use of nonpersistent APLs regardless of geographic location “when necessary for 172 The White House Office of the Press S ecretary, “Statement by NSC Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on U.S. Anti - Personnel Landmine Policy,” June 27, 2014. 173 U.S. Landmine Policy, available at http://www.state.gov/ t/pm/wra/c11735.htm . 174 CRS In Focus IF11440, U.S. Anti -Personnel Landmine Use Policy , by Andrew Feickert and Paul K. Kerr . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 37 mission success in major contingencies or other exceptional circumstances.” The new policy authoriz ed DOD to “acquire, retain, and transfer a limited number of persistent landmines” for training purposes. During a January 31, 2020, press briefing, a DOD official noted the potential need for the United States to develop new self -destructing APLs for use in accordance with the new policy. The above -cited memorandum stipulated that “Military Departments should explore acquiring landmines and landmine alternatives that could further reduce the risk of unintended harm to noncombatants.” On June 21, 2022, Nati onal Security Council (NSC) Spokesperson Adrienne Watson announced the United States would “align its policy concerning use” of antipersonnel landmines (APLs) “outside of the Korean Peninsula” with key provisions of the Ottawa Convention.175 A June 21, 2022 White House fact sheet stated that the United States would not develop, produce, or acquire APLs; export or transfer APLs; use APLs outside of the Korean Peninsula; or assist, encourage, or induce anyone to engage in any activity prohibited by the Ottawa Convention. According to the fact sheet, the United States would also destroy all APL stockpiles not required for the defense of South Korea. President Biden directed DOD “to undertake diligent efforts to pursue alternatives to anti -personnel landmines tha t would be compliant with and ultimately allow the United States to accede to the Ottawa Convention,” Watson explained. The Ottawa Convention176 The Ottawa Convention requires s tates parties to stop the production, use, and transfer of APL s, as well as to destroy all stockpiled APL s, except for the “minimum number absolutely necessary” for training purposes, within four years. States parties are also required to clear APLs within 10 years of becoming party to the convention but can request extensions of up to 10 years to complete this task. The convention has 166 states parties. Thirty - four states parties ha d not yet met their clearance obligations , as of November 19, 2021.177 The convention does not include a verification bo dy, but s tates parties may submit allegations of noncompliance, as well as requests for “clarification” from relevant governments, to the UN Secretary -General. A state party may also request that a special meeting of other treaty members address the comp liance matters. States p arties can initiate fact -finding missions and request relevant governments to address compliance issues. Convention on Cluster Munitions178 Cluster munitio ns are weapons that open in mid air and