globally, and sub -working groups concentrate on specific nonproliferation areas. Recent priorities have included biological security, radiological security, and bolstering the international respons e to chemical weapons attacks. In subsequent communiques, the G -7 reaffirmed their strong commitment to the GP and recognized the importance of continuing this joint effort to reduce WMD threats. The United States’ contribution to the Global Partnership i ncludes the work of nonproliferation, security engagement, and cooperative threat -reduction programs primarily in the Departments of Defense, Energy, and State. Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI)113 President Bush announced the Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI) on May 31, 2003. This initiative is primarily a diplomatic tool developed by the United States to gain support for interdicting shipments of weapons of mass destruction -related (WMD) equipment and materials. Through the PSI, the Bush Admin istration sought to “create a web of counterproliferation partnerships through which proliferators will have difficulty carrying out their trade in WMD and missile -related technology.” The states involved in PSI have agreed to review their national legal authorities for interdiction, provide consent for other states to board and search their own flag vessels, and conclude ship -boarding agreements. The Proliferation Security Initiative is an informal mechanism and has no separate budget or international secr etariat.114 As of June 2025, 116 countries had committed formally to PSI participation , called “endorsing states.”115 Sixteen “core” countries originally pledged their cooperation in interdicting shipments of WMD materials, agreeing in Paris in 2003 on a set of interdiction principles. The United States 112 Global Partnership Against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction website, http://www.gpwmd.com/ . 113 For historical background, see CRS Report RL34327, Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI) , by Mary Beth D. Nikitin . 114 The 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 (P.L. 110 -53) recommen ded that PSI be expanded and that coordination within the U.S. government be improved. 115 See also “Proliferation Security Initiative,” State Department website, https://www.state.gov/ bureau -of- international -security -and-nonproliferation/ proliferation -security -initiative and https://www.psi -online.info/ psi-info-en. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 24 concluded ship-boarding agreements with key states that have high volumes of international shipping. The United States has signed 11 agreements with Antigua and Barbuda, the Bahamas, Belize, Croatia, Cyprus, Liberia, Malta, the Marshall Islands, Mongolia, Panama, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. The PSI Operational Experts Group (OEG) consists of 21 sta tes and acts as a coordinating body. PSI countries hold high -level political and regionally focused meetings. Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism (GICNT) In July 2006, the United States and Russia announced the creation of the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism (GICNT) before the G -8 Summit in St. Petersburg. The GCINT website says that its activities have been suspended : “The GICNT is pausing all official meetings of the GICNT and its working groups until further notice. The GICNT wel comes the voluntary commitments of its partner countries in agreeing to host and organize future activities and