directly or indirectly linked to HTS, 4 of whom held military roles within the group.” See UN Document S/2025/482, July 24, 2025. In July 2025, then -UN Special Envoy for Syria Geir Pe dersen told the UN Security Council that the political transition was “not yet fully inclusive” and he noted that “many Syrians express concern about centralized power, limited transparency, weak checks and balances, and insufficient means for genuine public consultations, participation, and scrutiny .”9 The government held indirect elections in October for 119 of 210 seats in a transitional People’s Assembly. Of those elected, six are women, one is Christian, three are Ismaili, three are Alawi te, four are Kurds , and none are Druze. Twenty -one seats were not filled because of suspensions of the indirect voting process in areas of northeast Syria and Suweida (alt. Suwayda) governorate that were outside the government’s control.10 Following the Ja nuary 2026 reassertion of Syrian government control over areas of eastern Syria, authorities have said that Popular Assembly elections in those areas will be held when security conditions stabilize.11 President Sharaa is to appoint the remaining 70 members of the Assembly. The indirect method of election and 8 Text of Syrian Interim Constitution as translated by SyriaReport.com; and Evan Ward, “Syria Has a New Temporary Constitution. H ere Are the Highlights, ” New York Times , March 14, 2025. 9 UN Special Envoy for Syria Geir Pedersen Briefing to the UN Security Council, July 28, 2025. 10 Carlotta Gall, “ Syria Chooses a Parliament of Revolutionaries ,” New York Times , October 6, 2025. 11 On February 14, 2026, UN Deputy Special Envoy for Syria Claudio Cardone told the Security Council that “voting for four vacant seats in Raqqa governorate will take place in the coming weeks. Clarification is still pending on steps to fill a further 11 ele cted seats in Hasakah governorate and in the district of Ain -al-Arab, also known as Kobane.” Deputy Special Envoy for Syria Claudio Cordone, Briefing to the Security Council, February 13, 2026. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 7 geographic distribution of seats have drawn some attention from election experts.12 According to UN Deputy Special Envoy Najat Rochdi, “the High Electoral Commission has publicly acknowledged the need t o improve representation of communities.”13 Syria’s transitional constitutional declaration may be amended by presidential proposal approved by two -thirds of the Assembly. The president has yet to name members of the Supreme Constitutional Court created under the declaration. The transitional constitution declaration is to be replaced by a permanent constitution drafted by a still -to-be-named drafting committee. Transitional Government Reasserts Control over Eastern Syria In January 2026, the gove rnment forcefully reasserted control over areas of eastern Syria that until January 2026 were under the control of the Autonomous Administration of North and East Syria (AANES) and the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) . The diverse, resource -rich, and strateg ically located region has been the focal point of U.S. efforts to defeat