sovereignty and noninterference. In a February 2025 interview, A hmed Al Sharaa said “any military presence should be with the agreement of the host state.”68 Weapons of Mass Destruction. The Asad government’s domestic use of chemical weapons against its armed opponents and civilians drew international condemnation and motivated U.S. military strikes in 2017 and 2018. In December 2024, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) said “significant concerns persist regarding the accuracy and completeness” of the former government’s declarations to the a gency, “as well as the fate of substantial quantities of unaccounted -for chemical weapons.”69 Outstanding issues of concern reported to the OPCW Secretariat prior to Asad’s ouster “involved large quantities of potentially undeclared or unverified chemical warfare agents and chemical munitions.”70 The interim authorities have informed the OPCW that they lack the information and expertise to definitively identify and declare all chemical -weapons -related locations and materials . According to the OPCW , “in addition to 26 declared chemical weapons -related locations, information available to the Secretariat indicates that over 100 additional locations may have been involved in activities related 65 Warren P. Strobel, Ellen Nakashima, and Missy Ryan, “ U.S. shared secret intelligence with Syria’s new leaders ,” Washington Post , January 24, 2025. 66 UN Document S/2025/482, Thirty -sixth report of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team submitted pursuant to resolution 2734 (2024) , July 24, 2025. 67 “Exclusive - US gives nod to Syria to bring foreign jihadist ex -rebels into army ,” Reuters , June 2, 2025 . 68 Reuters, “Syria’s Sharaa aims to restore US ties, no contacts yet with Trump administration,” February 4, 2025. 69 OPCW, “OPCW ur ges Syria to fulfil Chemical Weapons Convention obligations,” December 12, 2024. 70 OPCW, “Syria’s caretaker Foreign Minister addresses OPCW’s Executive Council,” March 5, 2025. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 18 to chemical weapons. ”71 The OPCW Office of Special Missions , established in June 2025, coordinates and implements OPCW activities, and the OPCW reestablished a continuous presence in Syria in October 2025. In March 2025, interim Foreign Minister Asaad Al Shaibani participated in an OPCW meeting and stated the interim government’s commitment “to destroy any remains of the chemical weapons programme developed under the Assad regime, to put an end to this painful legacy, to bring justice to victims, and to ensure that the compliance with international law is a solid one.”72 The OPCW since has deployed Declaration Assessment Team and Office of Special Missions personnel to Syria with the support of the interim government. The personnel have visited some declared and suspected chemical weapons program locations with Syrian government assistance and have reported their findings to the OPCW and Syrian authorities regularly .73 The OPCW regularly requests that Syrian authorities keep it apprised of any information on sites, materials, personnel, or document s related to chemical weapons issues, and the government has provided documents and other information to OPCW teams. As of January 2026, the OPCW estimate