Syrian state entities, or individuals and groups in Syria, including U.S. - designated terrorist entities and individuals? What specific executive or legislative sanctions measures, if a ny, ought to be altered and how? • Under what circumstances might sanctions be reimposed ? For what purposes , on what terms, and with what potential effects ? • What measures can Congress directly affect and what measures are within the President’s discretion? Should the United States provide Syria -related foreign assistance and humanitarian assistance ? Through January 2025, the U.S. State Department and U.S. Agency for International Development provided a range of foreign assistance and security assistance in Syria, focused on areas outside the control of the Syrian government.135 This included stabilization programs focused on essential services and local governance, civil society, support for democratic governance, education, demining, agricultur e, support to independent media, community security, livelihoods, and economic growth. U.S. humanitarian assistance supported relief efforts for internally displaced persons in Syria, select Syrian communities, and Syrian refugees in regional countries. The Trump Administration’s review of U.S. foreign assistance, the reorganization of executive branch entities responsible for implementing foreign assistance, and changes to the 135 For a review of these programs see LIG -OIR, Report to the U.S. Congr ess, October 1, 2024 –December 31, 2024, pp. 84-99. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 34 U.S. military presence in Syria altered U.S. capabilities and programs. Some ass istance programs have ended, some have changed, and some continue on previous terms. Congress may inquire about the extent to which changes to U.S. foreign assistance programs and implementation in Syria instituted by the Trump Administration reflect lasting changes to U.S. policy and priorities there . Congress may consult Administration officials, implementing partners, and other observers to determine whether prevailing efforts are aligned with U.S. priorities and interest s in Syria and whether alternati ve approaches are advisable . Past congressional and executive branch concerns have focused on obstacles to the delivery of humanitarian assistance in Syria, the potential diversion of U.S. humanitarian and security assistance by entities in Syria , and the extent to which U.S.-funded assistance programs may benefit Syrian entities with whom the United States has policy differences. While many of these concerns were directly linked to the antagonistic relationship between the Asad government and the U.S. government, and Asad’s exploitation of international aid and recovery efforts, Congress may also consider these issues when examinin g proposals for assistance programs in post -Asad Syria , and in considering Administration requests for authorities or funds . Possible questions Members may consider for oversight and legislative purposes include the following: • What are Syria’s post -Asad se curity, economic, reconstruction, and humanitarian needs? To what extent, and h ow, are such needs being assessed and met? • What resources and partners are engaging to provide support to Syria ? • What support, if any, should the United States provide? Using what authorities, resources, and mechanisms? For how long, on what terms, and