Congressional Research Service 2 Similarly, U.S. national security policy has sought to prevent the further spread of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction (WMD)2 and their means of delivery through a variety of non- and counter -proliferation tools . For one reason, proliferation can exacerbate regional tensions that might escalate to conflict and involve or threaten U.S. forces or those of its allies and partners . Proliferation might also introduce new and unexpected threats to U.S. allies or the U.S. homeland. Furthermore, proliferation can greatly complicate U.S. national military strategy, force structure design, and conduct of operations. These weapons could also pose a threat to the U.S. homeland if they were acquired by terrorists or subnational groups. Hence, the United States employs diplomatic, economic, and military tools to restrain these threats and enhance its national security. Critics of arms control and nonproliferation arrangements often argue that the United States should not limit its own forces or flexibility in exchange for the promise that others might do so as well. They also argue that, absent stringent enforc ement mechanisms that force other states to comply with their obligations, these agreements can become unbalanced, with the United States abiding by the terms while others fail to do so. Other U.S. efforts —such as economic, military, or security assistanc e—may also help slow the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Alliances and security assurances, sometimes called a “nuclear umbrella” are another way to dissuade a country from pursuing an independent nuclear weapon capability.3 Assuring countries of access to the peaceful uses of nuclear, biological and chemical sciences is a key component of the treaties banning weapons in those categories. Conversely, unilateral or multilateral economic sanctions can be imposed on countries that violate international nonp roliferation standards.4 When diplomacy or sanctions fail, som e policy makers have argued that military measures may be necessary to attack nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction and related facilities in states hostile to the United States or its a llies. Accurate intelligence is a key component of both diplomatic and military approaches to nonproliferation . A concept closely related to ideas involving the limits on or the prevention of spread of certain military capabilities is disarmament , which in volve s the complete elimination of certain military capabilities. In the past, U.S. policies have either pursued or supported certain types of disarmament among two or more countries, or more broadly for certain categories of weapons such as chemical or bi ological weapons. Role of Congress The United States has led and participated in numerous arms control and nonproli feration efforts over the past 6 0 years. These efforts have produced formal treaties and agreements that impose restrictions on U.S. militar y forces and activities, informal arrangements and guidelines that the United States has agreed to observe, and unilateral restraints on military forces and activities that the United States has adopted either on its own or in conjunction with reciprocal r estraints on other countries ’ forces and activities.