terms of the 2010 New START Treaty.12 At the same time, the Administration stated that, in the current international security environment, the United States might be better served by bolstering its milita ry capabilities than by negotiating additional limits or reductions. The Trump Administration, like the Bush Administration, voiced skepticism about the role that arms control and nonproliferation agreements can play in strengthening U.S. national securit y. This view reflected growing concerns about Russian compliance with existing arms control agreements, but also derived from the view that arms control does too much to restrict U.S. flexibility and too little to limit the capabilities of other nations. M oreover, while some would argue that growing tensions between the United States and Russia strengthen the case for further negotiated limits on U.S. and Russian forces, the Trump Administration, echoing an Obama Administration argument, noted that Russia w as not willing to pursue such agreements. In response to these views, and after years of trying to convince Russia to return to compliance with the INF Treaty, the United States suspended its participation in INF and withdrew from the treaty on August 2, 2 019. It also questioned whether the Open Skies Treaty served U.S. national security interests and withdrew from that treaty on November 22, 2020. President Trump’s approach to diplomatic engagement with North Korea failed to resolve the nuclear crisis with that country, and the Trump Administration withdrew U.S. support for the agreement with Iran. Although the Trump Administration did not support the full five -year extension of New START, it did pursue discussions with Russia and also sought to replace New START with a broader agreement that would limit all types of Russian nuclear weapons, includin g shorter -range nonstrategic weapons, but it made no progress in convincing Russia to pursue this objective. It also suggested that China participate in the arms control process because it is modernizing and 11 The White House Office of the Press Secretary, “Remarks By President Barack Obama In Prague As Delivered, ” April 5, 2009, https://obamawhi tehouse.archives.gov/ the-press -office/ remarks -president -barack -obama -prague - delivered . 12 U.S. Department of Defense, Nuclear Posture Review , 2018.. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 6 expanding its nuclear forces. China rejected thi s invitation, noting that it deploys a far smaller number of nuclear weapons than the United States or Russia. The Biden Administration signaled a renewed interest in the use of arms control and nonproliferation measures to bolster U.S. national security. On January 21, 2021, the Biden Administration announced that the United States would support a five -year extension of the New START Treaty. After this extension and their June 2021 meeting in Geneva, President Biden and Russia’s President Vladimir Putin agreed that the United States and Russia would engage in “an integrated bilateral Strategic Stability Dialogue” that would “seek to lay the groundwork for future arms control and risk reduction measures.” The United States and Russia held