in response to escalating pro -Asad attacks, leading to the unexpected HTS capture of Aleppo and the cascading collapse of pro -Asad forces across western Syria. Some southern anti -Asad groups —demobilized under military pressure earlier in the conflict —remobilized as the regime collapsed. Asad fled to Russia on December 8, 2024, as HTS and southern armed groups entered Damascus. 3 For additional background, see CRS Report R46796, Congress and the Middle East, 2011 -2020: Selected Case Studies , coordinated by Christopher M. Blanchard . 4 Office of the Director of National Intelligence, Worldwide Threat Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community : 2018 . 5 UN Security Council, “Amid Stalemate, Acut e Suffering in Syria, Special Envoy Tells Security Council Political Solution ‘Only Way Out,’” Meetings Coverage, SC/14807, February 25, 2022. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 5 Political and Security Dynamics On January 22, 202 6, UN Assistant Secretary -General for the Middle East, Europe, the Americas, Asia and the Pacific Khaled Khiari told the UN Security Council that “much has been achieved in post-Al-Assad Syria” but warned that the country “remains extremely fragile after 14 years of devastating conflict .”6 Trans itional authorities are adapting preexisting state institutions to the country’s postwar realities, incorporating personnel and procedures to keep ministries and agencies functioning and leveraging the powers of the transitional presidency to consolidate a nd reorganize others and to create new administrative and economic bodies. Measures to promote inclusion, transparency, consultation, and accountability have been enacted but have remained relatively narrow , as authorities consider the pros and cons of expeditious decisionmaking and political pragmatism under conditions where national unity is under strain . Syria’s unresolved internal tensions, the interests of regional and international actors, and the transitional government ’s limitations have present ed serious challenges to the transition. According to UN officials, clashes during 2025 involving state forces, state -aligned armed groups, and some minority communities reportedly killed nearly 3,000 civilians and fighters and displaced more than 2 00,000 people. The violence increased global scrutiny of the interim authorities’ capabilities and intentions. The following issues present the principal challenges to Syria’s stability and the success of its transition. Political Transition and Consolida tion of Authority In January 2025, attendees at a “Victory Conference” of some anti -Asad armed groups appointed HTS leader Ahmed Hussein Al Sharaa (aka Abu Mohammed al Jawlani/Jolani/Golani , see Appendix ), as Syria’s interim president. Under Al Sharaa ’s leadership, authorities declared the dissolution of all military factions, political, and civil revolutionary bodies , including HTS, and called for their integration into state institutions. Many individuals appointed to initial interim national leadership positions were former HTS members or previously served in the HTS -backed Syrian Salvation Government that ruled rebel -held areas of northwest Syria . In conjunction with Sharaa’s selection as president, the authorities also rescinded Syria’s 2012 constitution and dissolved the former ruling Baath Party, the Asad -era legislature, and the former regime’s military and security forces. As of