May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects , as amended , also known as the Convention on Conventional Weapons (CCW) , addresses landmines .171 Specifically, the CCW’ s Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Mines, Booby -Traps and Other Devices as amended on 3 May 1996 prohibits the use of nondetectable APLs, imposes detailed restrictions on the use of persistent APLs, and requires that its parties take “[a]ll feasible precautions … to protect civilians from the effects” of APLs . The United States is a party to the protocol, which entered into force in 1998. U.S. Initiatives In 1996, President Clinton announced a policy that immediately discontinued U.S. use of persistent APL s except in the demilitarized zone (DMZ) separating North and South Korea, supported negotiation of a worldwide ban on APLs in the United Nations, and bac ked the development of alternative technologies to perform landmine functions without endangering civilians , and to expand mine detection and clearing technology efforts and assistance to mine - plagued countries. This initiative temporarily retained the pos sible use of nonpersistent APLs; Clinton subsequently set a goal of 2003 to replace such APLs outside the Korean Peninsula by 2003 and on the peninsula by 2006 . President Clinton also supported negotiation in the U nited Nations of a worldwide ban on APLs. In November 1996, the United States introduced a resolution to the UN General Assembly urging governments “to pursue vigorously an effective, legally -binding international agreement to ban the use, stockpiling, production and transfer” of APLs. While many governments supported such a ban, others were concerned that verifying such a ban would be difficult and that APLs still played a useful role in military operations . 170 “DoD Policy on Landmines,” January 31, 2020. 171 Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons , https://disarmament.unoda.org/en/our -work/conventional - arms/convention -certain -conventional -weapons . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 36 At the conclusion of an October 1996 confer ence in Ottawa, a number of governments agreed to work toward “the earliest possible conclusion of a legally -binding international agreement to ban anti-personnel mines.” Using language identical to the U.S. -sponsored version described above , the General Assembly adopted a resolution i n December 1996 e xhorting governments to adopt an international ban on APLs. Following several multilateral meetings, a September 1997 conference in Oslo adop ted the Ottawa Convention text, formally titled the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Producti on and Transfer of Anti -personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, which entered into force on March 1, 1999. The Clinton Administration participated in the Ottawa Pro cess but declined to sign the t reaty after failing to gain certain temporary exceptions to treaty language. Specifically, the United States wanted the option of continuing APL use on the Korean Peninsula until 2006, as well as the ability to include nonpersistent APL (or “devices”) within antitank landmine munitions. President Clinton