the President outlined an agenda that included the pursuit of a new strategic arms control treaty with Russia, efforts to secure the rat ification and entry into force of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, and the eventual negotiation of a Fissile 8 See CRS Report R45033, Nuclear Negotiations with North Korea , by Mark E. Manyin and Mary Beth D. Nikitin . 9 The absence of confidence in arms control during the George W. Bush Administration extended to the State Department, where the Administration removed the phrase “arms control” from all bureaus that were responsible for this policy area. The focus remained on nonproliferation, but it was seen as a policy area that no longer required formal treaties to meet its objectives. This changed with the Obama Administration. The State Depa rtment restored the phrase “arms control” to some bureau titles, and “arms control” was again listed as a central issue on the State Department website. 10 U.S. Department of Defense, Nuclear Posture Review Report , April 2010.. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 5 Material Control Treaty . President Obama also convened an international nuclear security summit, in April 2010, in an effort to win global cooper ation in efforts to contain and eliminate vulnerable nuclear materials. The United States participated in three additional nuclear security summits through April 2016. President Obama also pledged to take a number of steps to strengthen the Nuclear Non -Proliferation Treaty in conjunction with its review conference in May 2010.11 In 2010, the United States and Russia signed the New START Treaty. They completed the implementation of its reductions in 2018. During President Obama’s second term, the United States highlighted concerns with Russia’s compliance with past agreements. Specifically, the United States accused Russia of violating the 1987 Intermediate -range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty and the 1992 Open Skies Treaty. Some have argued that these actions, when combined with Russia’s annexation of Crimea and invasion of Ukraine in early 2014, indicated the start of Russia’s rejection of the web of arms control and security agreements that have contributed to U.S., Russian, and European security for the past two decades. On the other hand, in 2015, the United States, Russia, and others reached an agreement with Iran that restricted Iran’s nuclear program and introduced new, extensive international monitoring mechanisms to ensure that Iran does not acquire a nu clear weapon. The first Trump Administration offered some support for existing arms control and nonproliferation tools. It noted, in the 2018 Nuclear Posture Review, that the United States continued to support the goals of the 1968 Nuclear Non -Proliferatio n Treaty and that it would continue to abide by the terms of the 2010 New START Treaty.12 At the same time, the Administration stated that, in the current international security environment, the United States might be better served by bolstering its milita ry capabilities than by negotiating additional limits or reductions. The Trump Administration, like the Bush Administration, voiced skepticism