to acquire nuclear, chemical, biological, or advanced conventional weapons. Section 1604 requires the Presi dent to impose sanctions against any person whom he has determined to be engaged in such transfers. Section 1605 similarly addresses activities of foreign governments. The 104th Congress amended the law (by passage of S ection 1408(a), P.L. 104 -106, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996) to make it apply to transfers contributing to the development of weapons of mass destruction as well as advanced conventio nal weapons. 246 See CRS Report 97 -1027, Nunn -Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Programs: Issues for Congress , by Amy F. Woolf . 247 See CRS Report RL31957, Nonproliferation and Threat Reduction Assistance: U.S. Programs in the Former Soviet Union , by Amy F. Woolf . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service RL33865 · VERSION 68 · UPDATED 83 Iran, North Korea and Syria Nonproliferation Act The law ( P.L. 106 -178) imposes penalties on countries whose companies help Iran’s efforts to acquire weapons of mass destruction and missile delivery systems. In 2005, P.L. 109 -112, the Iran Nonproliferation Amendments Act, added Syria to the law and added sanctions for transfers to and from those countries. In 2006, Congress also added North Korea to the act ( P.L. 109-353). Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability and Divestment Act (CISADA ) This law ( P.L. 111 -195) imposes penalties on foreign financial institutions and compan ies that, among other provisions, assist Iran in the development of weapons of mass destruction. Author Information Mary Beth D. Nikitin, Coordinator Specialist in Nonproliferation Paul K. Kerr Specialist in Nonproliferation Anya L. Fink Analyst in U.S. Defense Policy Acknowledgments Amy F. Woolf, former Specialist in Nuclear Weapons Policy, was an original coauthor of this report. Disclaimer This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should n ot be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyr ight protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.