Joint Task Force -Operation Inherent Resolve (CJTF -OIR) to serve as the military component of the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS, a multilateral civil and military coalition of dozens of countries. In 2015 , the United States deployed military forc es to Syria to counter the Islamic State and train local partner forces. Coalition and U.S. gains in Syria against the Islamic State after 2015 came largely through the assistance of Syrian Kurdish -led partner forces, but neighboring Turkey’s concerns abou t Kurdish forces in Syria emerged as a persistent challenge for U.S. policymakers. In 2017 , the United States began providing arms to the Kurdish -led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), and the SDF, backed by U.S. forces, advanced on IS -held areas, seizing th e IS stronghold of Raqqah in October 2017 and asserting control over the last IS -held areas of Syria’s eastern Euphrates River valley in March 2019. In 2018 , the U.S. intelligence community assessed that the conflict had “decisively shifted in the Syrian regime’s favor.”4 Remaining armed opposition forces (including groups linked to Al Qaeda) and civilians actively opposed to Asad were pushed into a shrinking geographic space in and around Idlib province in northwestern Syria. Turkish military forces rema ined present in Idlib and other areas of northern Syria, limiting advances by pro -Asad forces and preventing further displacement of Syrians to Turkey. In October 2019 , after President Trump signaled that U.S. forces would withdraw from Syria, Turkey launc hed a cross -border military operation attempting to expel Syrian Kurdish U.S. partner forces from areas adjacent to the Turkish border. President Trump briefly imposed sanctions on Turkish officials and negotiated a ceasefire that was later comple mented by a separate agreement reached between Turkey and Russia to establish patrolled security zones. While U.S. -led coalition and partner forces focused on defeating the Islamic State in northern and eastern Syria, support from Russian, Iranian, and Hezbollah fo rces enabled the Syrian government to retake many areas of the country formerly held by the opposition. The United Nations (UN) sponsored peace talks in Geneva beginning in 2012, but the talks bore little fruit. Over time, military pressure on the Syrian government to make concessions to the opposition was reduced. By 2022 , UN Special Envoy for Syria Geir Pedersen described the conflict as a “stalemate” with relatively fixed lines.5 In Idlib, Haya’t Tahrir al Sham distanced itself from Al Qaeda and the Is lamic State, establishing and controlling a Syrian Salvation Government, retraining fighters into more formidable and capable units, and periodically clashing with Turkey -backed groups in control of other areas of northern Syria. In November 2024 , HTS -led forces launched an offensive in response to escalating pro -Asad attacks, leading to the unexpected HTS capture of Aleppo and the cascading collapse of pro -Asad forces across western Syria. Some southern anti -Asad groups —demobilized under military pressure earlier in the conflict —remobilized as the regime collapsed. Asad fled to Russia on December