Conventional Arms.167 The ATT prohibits states parties from approving tre aty-covered transfers in cases when the state “has knowledge” when reviewing the proposed transfer that the exported items would be used in the commission of genocide, crimes against humanity, grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions of 1949, attacks direc ted against civilian objects or civilians protected as such, or other war crimes as defined by international agreements to which it is a party. 165 Arms Trade Treaty New York, April 2, 2013, United States of America: Communication Reference: C.N.314.2019.TREATIES -XXVI.8 (Depositary Notification), July 19, 2019. 166 United Nations Treaty Collection , Chapter XXVI: Disarmament, Arms Trade Treaty, New York, April 2, 2013, https://treaties.un.org/ Pages/ ViewDetails.aspx? src=TREATY& mtdsg_no= XXVI -8&chapter= 26&clang= _en#3 . 167 “Message From the President of the United States Transmitting the Arm s Trade Treaty, Done at New York on April 2, 2013, and Signed by the United States on September 25, 2013 ,” Treaty Doc. 114 -14, December 9, 2016. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 34 The treaty also prohibits states parties from approving treaty -covered transfers to any country that violates a UN Security Council Resolution adopted under Chapter VII of the UN Charter. In addition, the ATT prohibits transfers that would violate the exporting state’s “relevant international obligations under international agreements to which it is a Party, in part icular those relating to the transfer of, or illicit trafficking in, conventional arms.” Regarding arms transfers not prohibited by the above criteria, the ATT obligates states parties to adopt pre -export review processes which “assess the potential” that the exported items “would contribute to or undermine peace and security” or “could be used” to “commit or facilitate” human rights violations, international humanitarian law violations, or acts of terrorism or transnational cri me. The treat y prohibits states parties from authorizing such exports if, after conducting the aforementioned review and “considering available mitigating measures,” the government “determines that there is an overriding risk of any” of these consequences. According to the United States, governments would “balance” such risks “against the potential that the conventional arms or items would contribute to peace and security.”168 The ATT also requires the aforementioned pre -export reviews to “take into account the risk” tha t exported items could be “used to commit or facilitate serious acts of gender -based violence or serious acts of violence against women and children.” But the treaty does not appear to prohibit the export of weapons in cases where this particular risk is p resent. The ATT also requires states parties to “take measures to prevent” the diversion of covered arms and ammunition, to mitigate risks of diversion by cooperating and exchanging information, and to “take appropr iate measures” if the government detects diversion. The treaty encourages states parties to “share relevant information with one another on effective measures to address diversion.” The ATT does not define “diversion” but, according to the United States, it “is understood to mean