and revised flank zones.”200 It also cite d Russia for relatively minor reporting violations and for its fai lure to complete withdrawals of its troops from Georgia and Moldova. It also cite d Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, and Ukraine for non compliance.201 Armenia and A zerbaijan, engaged in a conflict over the Nagorno -Karabakh territory, have not completed equipmen t reductions , provided complete equipment declarations , or provided timely notification of new equipment acquisition. Belarus was also cited for questionable equipment declarations and for its refusal to allow inspectors access to an equipment storage site . The State Department deems Ukraine to have substantially complied with CFE requirements, but notes that it retain ed several hundred equipment items in excess of treaty limits. The State Department has raised significant issues with Russia’s compliance, p articularly in the years since Russia suspended its participation in the treaty. Collapse of the CFE Regime On April 26, 2007, Russian President Putin announced a “moratorium” on Russian CFE compliance, pointing to, among other things, the NATO members ’ not having ratified the treaty as adapted. Subsequently, in statements to the press and diplomatic conferences, Russian officials elucidated the Russian position and its concerns. Among the major points are the following:202 • During its CFE “moratorium ,” Russ ia will not allow CFE inspections , nor will it report on its military movements. • The Istanbul Commitments regarding troop withdrawals in Georgia and Moldova are not an integral part of the CFE Adaptation Agreement document, and are consequently not legally binding and should not stand in the way of NATO members’ ratification of the agreement. • The Baltic States and Slovakia are not bound by the CFE , and their NATO membership, coupled with the new U.S. basing agreements with Poland, Bulgaria, and Romania, con stitute an unacceptable encroachment on Russian national security. • If the NATO nations do not ratify the CFE Adaptation Agreement within a year, Russia will consider complete withdrawal from the treaty. Russian officials, military leaders , and political co mmentators increasingly refer red to the CFE treaty as a “Cold War agreement,” which no longer reflect ed the realities of the European security environment. Russian military officials’ consultations at NATO Headquarters on May 10 brought (nondistributable but available to congressional clients upon request) , and CRS Report RL33453, Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Georgia: Political Developments and Implications for U.S. Interests , by Jim Nichol and Steven Woehrel . 200 Adherence to and Complianc e with Arms Control and Nonproliferation Agreements and Commitments , Department of State, 2005 , p. 47. The State Department did not publish this statutorily mandated report to Congress in 2006. 201 Ibid., pp. 16 -28. 202 “Russia May Withdraw from Agreement with NATO ,” RIA Novosti , April 27, 2007; “Russian Paper Examines NATO Ties, Impact of CFE Moratorium,” BBC Monitoring Service , May 1, 2007. Translation from Kommersant , April 28, 2007. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 46