also fall under MTCR guidelines. Regime partners update the MTCR guidelines and annex. The MTCR annex contains two categories of controlled i tems. Category I items are the most sensitive. There is “a strong presumption to deny such transfers,” according to the MTCR guidelines. Category -I systems “are recognized through long -standing international consensus as being the systems of most concern w ith respect to the delivery cap ability for a nuclear payload,” France, G ermany, and the United Kingdom asserted in an August 2 021 letter to the UN Security Council .194 Regime partners have greater flexibility to regulate e xports of Category II items. Category I items include complete rocket systems (including ballistic missiles, space launch vehicles, and sounding rockets), UA V systems (including cruise missiles systems, target and reconnaissance drones), production facilities for such systems, and maj or subsyste ms (including rocket stages, re entry vehicles, rocket engines, guidance systems, and warhead mechanisms). The guidelines prohibit exports of production facilities for Category I items. Category II items are other less sensitive and dual -use miss ile-related components that could be used to develop a Category I system and complete missiles and major subsystems of missiles capable of delivering a payload of any size to a range of 300 km. Hague Code of Conduct Against Ballistic Missile Proliferation (HCOC) The Hague Code of Conduct against Ballistic Missile Proliferation (HCOC) was inaugurat ed on November 25, 2002. The HCOC , which has 145 subscribing states, is not a treaty but instead a set of “fundamental behavioral norms and a framework for coopera tion to address missile proliferation.” It focuses on the possession of ballistic missiles, as a complement to the supply - 191 Information on MTCR partners is available at http://mtcr.info/ partners/ . 192 “20 Years of the Missile Technology Control Regime and Beyond,” paper given to the DIIS Conference on Missile Proliferation, Copenhagen, May 2, 2007. 193 The MTCR guidelines and annex are available at http://www.mtcr.info . 194 Letter dated 10 August 2021 from the Representatives of France, Germany and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the United Nations Addressed to the Secretary -General , August 11, 2021, S/2021/724. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 42 side-oriented MTCR. Subscribing states have held regular conferences since the c ode came into effect.195 The HCOC, according to its te xt, intends to “prevent and curb the proliferation of Ballistic Missile systems capable of delivering weapons of mass destruction.” The code calls on subscribing states “to exercise maximum possible restraint in the development, testing and deployment of B allistic Missiles capable of delivering weapons of mass destruction [WMD], including, where possible, to reduce national holdings of such missiles.” Subscribing states also agree not to assist ballistic missile programs in countries suspected of developing WMD. In addition, the code calls for subscribing states to “exercise the necessary vigilance” when assisting other countries’ space -launch programs, which could serve as covers for