the Senate and requested the Senate to return the treaty to the President.164 On May 161 Joint Press Statement from the Permanent Representatives to the United Nations of the United States, United Kingdom, and France Following the Adoption of a Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapons, July 7, 2017, https://usun.state.gov/ remarks/ 7892 . 162 See also CRS In Focus IF10567, The Arms Trade Treaty , by Paul K. Kerr . 163 Senate Consideration of Treaty Document 114 -14, https://www.congress.gov/ treaty -document/ 114th -congress/ 14. 164 Presidential Message, 165 Cong . Rec. S. 2483, Senate, vol. 165 , no. 69 , p. S2483, April 29, 2019. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 33 13, 2 019, Senator Rand Paul introduced S.Res. 204 , “An executive resolution to return to the President of the United States the Arms Trade Treaty.” The bill was referred to the Senator Foreign Relations Committee the same day, but the committee did not act on the resolution. The United States notified the UN Secretary -General on July 18, 2019 , that “the United States does not intend to become a party” to the ATT, adding that the United States “has no legal obligations arising” from its treaty signature.165 The relevant UN web site contains the above - described statements in a footnote.166 Treaty Provisi ons The ATT regulates trade in conventional weapons between and among countries. The treaty does not affect sales or trade in weapons among private citizens within a country. The treaty obligates states parties engaged in the international arms trade to es tablish national control systems to review, authorize, and document the import, export, brokerage, transit, and transshipment of conventional weapons, their parts, and ammunition. The treaty also requires that states parties report on their treaty -specifie d transfers to other nations on an annual basis to the Secretariat. The scope of the weapons covered by the ATT includes the following, though states parties may voluntarily include other conventional weapons: • battle tanks, • armored combat vehicles, • large -caliber artillery systems, • combat aircraft, • attack helicopters, • warships, • missiles and missile launchers, and • small arms and light weapons. States parties’ definitions of the first seven categories of weapons must, at a minimum, include items covered by the descriptions in the UN Register of Conventional Arms. For the last category, such definitions “shall not cover less than the descriptions used in relevant” UN instruments when the ATT entered into force. These instruments, according to th e United States, are the International Instrument to Enable States to Identify and Trace, in a Timely and Reliable Manner, Illicit Small Arms and Light Weapons, and the UN Register of Conventional Arms.167 The ATT prohibits states parties from approving tre aty-covered transfers in cases when the state “has knowledge” when reviewing the proposed transfer that the exported items would be used in the commission of genocide, crimes against humanity, grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions of 1949, attacks direc ted