when Russia could already collect targeting data with through its satellite operations. Arms Control Between the United States and States of the Former Soviet Union 1970s: SALT I and S ALT II The United States and Soviet Union signed their first formal agreements limiting nuclear offensive and defensive weapons in May 1972. The Strategic Arms Limitation Talks, known as SALT, produced two agreements —the Interim Agreement ... on Certain Me asures with Respect to the Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms and the Treaty ... on the Limitation of Anti -Ballistic Missile Systems. These were followed, in 1979, by the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty, known as SALT II, which sought to codify equal limits on U.S. and Soviet strategic offensive nuclear forces. The Interim Agreement on Offensive Arms The Interim Agreement on Offensive Arms imposed a freeze on the number of launchers for intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) and submarine -launched ballistic missiles (SLBMs) that the United States and Soviet Union could deploy. The parties agreed that they would not begin construction of new ICBM launchers after July 1, 1972; at the time the United States had 1,054 ICBM launchers and the Soviet Unio n had 1,618 ICBM launchers. They also agreed to freeze their number of SLBM launchers and modern ballistic missile submarines, although they could add SLBM launchers if they retired old ICB M launchers. A protocol to the t reaty indicated that the United Sta tes could deploy up to 710 SLBM launchers on 44 submarines, and the Soviet Union could deploy up to 950 SLBM launchers on 62 submarines. The inequality in these numbers raised serious concerns both in Congress and in the policy community in Washington. When approving the agreement, Congress adopted a provision, known as the Jackson amendment, that mandated that all future arms control agreements would have to contain equal limits for the United States and Soviet Union. The Interim Agreement w as to remain in force for five years, unless the parties replaced it with a more comprehensive agreement limiting strategic offensive weapons. In 1977, both nations agreed to observe the agreement until the y completed the SALT II Treaty. The Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty (SALT II) The United States and Soviet Union completed the SALT II Treaty in June 1979, after seven years of negotiations. During these negotiations, the United States sought limits on quantitative and qualitative changes in Soviet force s. The U.S. negotiating position also reflected the congressional mandate for numerically equal limits on both nations’ forces. As a result, the treaty limited each nation to a total of 2,400 ICBM launchers, SLBM launchers , and heavy bombers, with this num ber declining to 2,250 by January 1 , 1981. Within this total, the t reaty contained 212 https://2017 -2021.state. gov/briefing -with-special -presidential -envoy -for-arms -control -marshall -billingslea -and- assistant -secretary -for-international -security -and-nonproliferation -dr-christopher -a-ford-on-the-treaty -on-ope/ index.html . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 51 sublimits for the numbers launchers that could be