insist that it is unwilling to discuss further limits on offensive weapons until the United States agrees to limit the numbers and capabilities of its missile defense systems. The Trump Administration completed a new Missile Defense Review in 2 019. This review continues to support the deployment of missile defenses in Europe and Asia to address regional missile threats from nations such as North Korea and Iran. It has also outlined plans to move toward the deployment of more robust sensors, and possibly interceptors, that could address threats from other nations. The Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty (The Moscow Treaty)218 During a summit meeting with President Putin in November 2001, President George W. Bush announced that the United States w ould reduce its “operationally deployed” strategic nuclear warheads to a level between 1,700 and 2,200 warheads during the next decade. He stated that the United States would reduce its forces unilaterally, without signing a formal agreement. President Putin indicated that Russia wanted to use the formal arms control process, emphasizing that the two sides should focus on “reaching a reliable and verifiable agreement.” Russia sought a “legally binding document” that would provide “predictability and transpa rency” and ensure for the “irreversibilty of the reduction of nuclear forces.” The United States wanted to maintain the flexibility to size and structure its nuclear forces in response to its own needs. It preferred a less formal process, such as an exchan ge of letters and, possibly, new transparency measures that would allow each side to understand the force structure plans of the other side. Within the Bush Administration, Secretary of State Powell supported the conclusion of a “legally binding” agreement because he believed it would help President Putin’s standing with his domestic critics. He apparently prevailed over the objections of officials in the Pentagon. Although the eventual outcome did differ from the initial approach of the Bush Administration , most observers agree that it did not undermine the fundamental U.S. objectives in the ne gotiations because the t reaty’s provisions would not impede the Bush Administration’s plans for U.S. strategic nuclear forces. The United States and Russia signed the Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty (also known as the Moscow Treaty) on May 24, 2002. The U.S. Senate gave its advice and cons ent to the ratification of the t reaty on March 6, 2003. The Russian Duma approved the Federal Law on Ratification for the treaty on May 14, 2003. The Treaty entered into force on June 1, 2003. The Treaty was due to remain in force until December 31, 2012, after which it could be extended or 218 See CRS Report RL31448, Nuclear Arms Control: The Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty , by Amy F. Woolf , and CRS Report RL31222, Arms Control and Strategic Nuclear Weapons: Unilateral vs. Bilateral Reductions , by Amy F. Woolf . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 62 replaced by another agreement. It lapsed, however, on February 5, 2011, when the New