cooperating and exchanging information, and to “take appropr iate measures” if the government detects diversion. The treaty encourages states parties to “share relevant information with one another on effective measures to address diversion.” The ATT does not define “diversion” but, according to the United States, it “is understood to mean the illicit or u nlawful rerouting or redirection of a transfer of conventional arms, contrary to a State Party’s own national control laws.”169 Finally, the ATT encourages cooperation between States Parties in such areas as developing implementing legi slation and building institutional capacity . ATT states parties must submit annual reports to a treaty -established Secretariat regarding authorized or actual exports and imports of treaty -specified items. States parties may include the same information in these reports, which may “exclude commercially sensitive or national security information,” that they would submit pursuant to other “relevant United Nations frameworks,” the treaty states. The ATT also provides for various measures of cooperation among states parties. For ex ample, the treaty requires states parties to “cooperate with each other … to effectively implement” the ATT, as well as “afford one another the widest measure of assistance in investigations, prosecutions and judicial proceedings in relation to violations of national measures established pursuant” to the treaty. The ATT also provides mechanisms for states parties to offer and request assistance for such matters as managing weapons stockpiles, developing legislation, and institutional capacity -building. Each state-party “in a position to do so shall provide such assistance, upon request.” According to the treaty text, the ATT’s Secretariat will have a “minimized structure” and shall • receive, make available, and distribute the reports as mandated by the treat y; 168 Ibid. 169 Ibid. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 35 • maintain and make available to States Parties the list of national points of contact; • facilitate the matching of offers of and requests for assistance for treaty implementation and promote international cooperation, as requested; • facilitate the work of the Conference of States Parties, including making arrangements and providing the necessary services for meetings under the treaty; and • perform other duties as decided by the Conferences of States Parties. Controlling the Use of Antipersonnel Landmines Antipersonnel landmines (APL) are small, inexpensive weapons that kill or maim people upon contact. Abandoned, unmarked minefields can remain dangerous to both soldiers and civilians for an indefinite time. Nonpersistent landmines, according to the Department of Defense , “must possess self -destruction mechanisms and self -deactivation features.”170 Persistent landmines, which the new policy forbids, lack these features. Convent ion on Conventional Weapons The Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects , as amended , also known as the Convention on Conventional Weapons (CCW) , addresses landmines .171 Specifically, the CCW’ s Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Mines, Booby -Traps and Other Devices as amended