of limited political reform, while privileging family members and other Alawite supporters and aligning his government with Iran and Russia and with nonstate actors such as Hamas and Hezbollah in a complex rivalry with the United States and its Arab and no n-Arab allies (including Israel). Violence in northeast Syria in 2004 highlighted long -standing and unresolved tensions involving Syria’s ethic Kurdish minority. In 2011, Asad met local unrest with military force, sparking an insurgency that spread in 2012 and ignited more than a decade of conflict and foreign intervention. Figure 2. Syria : At a Glance Map and Data Source: CRS using Central Intelligence Agency World Factbook data, February 2025. Notes: The United States recognized the Golan Heights as part of Israel in 2019. UN Security Council Resolution 497, adopted on December 17, 1981, held that the area of the Golan Heights controlled by Israel ’s military is occupied territory belonging to Syria. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 4 Syria: Conflict Syn opsis and U.S. Policy, 2011 -2024 In March 2011 , antigovernment protests broke out in Syria, in the midst of a wider trend of regional upheaval and challenges to decades of authoritarian rule. Violence escalated, and, in August 2011, President Barack Obama called on Syrian President Bashar al Asad to step down. Over time, the rising death toll from the conflict and the use of chemical weapons by the Asad government intensified pressure for the United States to assist the opposition. In 2013, Congress debated lethal and nonlethal assistance to vetted Syrian opposition groups, and authorized the latter. After President Obama said the United States viewed chemical weapons use as a red line, Congress debated, but did not authorize, the use of force after an Augus t 2013 chemical weapons attack. In 2014 , the Obama Administration requested authority and funding from Congress to provide lethal support to vetted Syrians for select purposes. The original request sought authority to support vetted Syrians in “defending the Syrian people from attacks by the Syrian regime,” but the subsequent advance of the Islamic State organization from Syria across Iraq refocused executive and legislative deliberations onto counterterrorism. Congress ultimately authorized a Department of Defense -led train and equip program for select Syrian forces to combat terrorist groups active in Syria, defend the United States and its partners from Syria -based terrorist threats, and “promote the conditions for a negotiated settlement to end the confl ict in Syria.”3 In September 2014, the United States began air strikes in Syria, with the stated goal of preventing the Islamic State from using Syria as a base for its operations in neighboring Iraq. In October 2014, the Defense Department established C ombined Joint Task Force -Operation Inherent Resolve (CJTF -OIR) to serve as the military component of the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS, a multilateral civil and military coalition of dozens of countries. In 2015 , the United States deployed military forc es to Syria to counter the Islamic State and train