States will continue to observe its unilateral moratorium.81 While the CTBT remains on the calendar of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, no Administration since has sought the Senate’s consent for ratification. The Trump Administration’s February 2018 Nuclear Posture Review said that “although the United States will not seek ratific ation of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban treaty, it will continue to support the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization Preparatory Committee as well as the International Monitoring System and International Data Center.”82 The Biden Administ ration’s 2022 Nuclear Posture Review said the United States would continue “to observe a moratorium on nuclear explosive testing,” work toward the entry into force of the CTBT, and support the continued development of the CTBTO PrepCom’s monitoring and ver ification mechanisms. International Monitoring System The International Monitoring System (IMS) has been set up over the past 20 years by the Comprehensive Test -Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) Preparatory Commission’s Provisional 80 See Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act of 1993 , P.L. 102 -377, §507, 106 Stat. 1315, 1343 -44 (1992). 81 CRS In Focus IF11662, U.S. Nuclear Weapons Tests , by Anya L. Fink and Mary Beth D. Nikitin . 82 2018 Nuclear Posture Review , U.S. Department of Defense, https://www.defense.gov/ News/ SpecialReports/ 2018NuclearPostureReview.aspx . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 16 Technical Secretariat to detect underground, underwater, or atmospheric nuclear testing. The IMS consists of two types of sensors: (1) a global network of monitoring stations that measure seismic, infrasound, and hydroacoustic signals, and (2) a complement of sensors that detect r adionuclides and noble gases in the atmosphere.83 The IMS is operating about 90% of these stations and laboratories, out of a planned 337 , in 89 countries .84 In total, the IMS is planning for a total of 170 seismic stations, 60 infrasound stations, 11 hydr oacoustic stations, 80 radionuclide stations, and 16 radionuclide laboratories. Host countries work with the CTBTO Prep Com to certify the station. The CTBTO PrepCom does not have legal authority to verify compliance with the treaty, nor does it have the option to launch on -site inspections until after entry into force. T he IMS is in testing and provisional operation, and the CTBTO is providing its member states with raw and reviewed data from the International Data Centre (IDC ) on event detection and loca tion. Member states are responsible for interpreting the data. Under the terms of treaty, the member states can use data from the CTBTO combined with National Technical Means (NTM) to determine whether a nuclear test has occurred (characterization and attr ibution). Since some member states do not have the capability to interpret the raw or reviewed data provided by the International Data Centre in the event bulletins, they may request special processing and analysis from the IDC. Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zones (NWFZs) Several regions of the world have treaties in force that ban the development, deployment, and use of nuclear weapons, known as nuclear -weapon