of the Syria crisis and the intervention of external actors have made the outcome of Syria’s transition and the country’s stability a matter of national security concern for some countries across the Middle East region and beyond. As of February 2026, notable statements and developments involving selected third parties include the following. Israel. The fall of the Asad regime brought an end to 50 years of rule by antagon ists of Israel who had facilitated the transfer of support from Iran to Israel’s enemies in Lebanon and beyond. During Israel’s wars against Hamas and Hezbollah following the attacks of October 7, 2023, Israel continued air strikes on Syrian territory; in September 2024, it conducted a special forces raid against Syrian missile factories.106 Israel has conducted military strikes across Syria since Asad’s ouster, targeting sites associated with Syrian weapons of mass destruction and defense research programs, conventional weapons, and air defense systems. Israel also has demanded that the Syrian transitional government demilitarize three southern provinces, a demand that some Syrians have publicly protest ed. As the Asad regime collapsed on December 8, 2024 , Israeli military forces entered the UN Disengagement Observation Force (UNDOF) buffer zone established by the 1974 Israel -Syria Disengagement Agreement. From 1974 until Asad’s ouster, most international controversy regarding control over Israel -Syria border areas focused on Israel’s 1981 annexation of areas of the Golan Heights it had captured in the 1967 Arab -Israeli war. The United States recognized these Israel -controlled areas of the Golan Heights as part of Israel in 2019. Syria’s transitional authorities report that they have communicated with UNDOF officials and expressed their willingness to return Syrian state forces to areas adjacent to the UNDOF zone provided that Israel removes its force from areas within and beyond the zone. In November 2025, President Ahmed Al Sharaa, whose family reportedly was displaced from the Golan region in 1967 and whose nom de guerre Abu Mohammed al Jolani/Jawlani/Golani during the insurgency reflected those origins , criticized what he described as I srael’s “expansionist ambitions” and reiterated his government’s view that “ to reach a final agreement, Israel should withdraw to their pre-Dec. 8 (2024) borders. ”107 Syrian authorities reportedly have said in a letter to the U.S. government “we will not allow Syria to become a source of threat to any party, including Israel.”108 104 The White House, “Fact Sheet: President Donald J. Trump Imposes a Temporary Import Duty to Address Fundamental International Payment Problems,” February 20, 2026. See also CRS Legal Sidebar LSB11398, Supr eme Court Rules Against Tariffs Imposed Under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) , by Christopher T. Zirpoli . 105 U.S. Census Bureau , “U.S. trade in goods with Syria ,” data accessed February 24 , 202 6. 106 “Israeli military says commandos raided missile plant in Syria in September ,” Reuters, January 2, 2025. 107 Susannah George and Tobi Raji, “ Syrian president details plans to work with Americans he once fought ,” Washington Post , November 11,