Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Updated February 26, 2026 Congressional Research Service https://crsreports.congress.gov RL33487 Congressional Research Service SUMMARY Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Since the December 2024 collapse of the government of Bashar Al Asad, Syrians have pursued political and economic opportunities created by the end of the country’s 12-year civil war. Internal tensions and external pressures pose obstacles to the country’s transition. Transitional President Ahmed Al Sharaa led a group long designated by the U.S. government as a foreign terrorist organization and still designated as a specially designated global terrorist entity . He has renounced former ties to Al Qaeda and the Islamic State and met with President Donald Trump in the White House in November 2025. Interim authorities have outlined a five-year transitional constitutional framework after limited consultation with Syrian citizens . Indirect e lections were held in October 2025 for a transitional legislative assembly ; elections were not held in some areas of eastern Syria, which were then under the control of ethnic Kurdish -led forces , and areas south east of the capital, Damascus, which remain under the control of members of the Druze religious minority . Turkish forces remain in parts of the north, while Israeli forces have moved into formerly demilitarized areas between Syria and Israel and into some Syrian territory near the frontier. Sectarian violence involving government forces, their backers, and mem bers of minority communities ha s marred the transition, highlighting the interim government’s limited capacity to ensure security and impose discipline on its forces . In this context, some observers have expressed skepticism about the transitional governme nt’s commitments to inclusivity and the protection of all members of Syria’s diverse religious and ethnic fabric. Others have warned that domestic and foreign opponents of the transitional government may be exploiting communal tensions to advance their own agendas , and that fragmentation in Syria would threaten regional security . The Trump Administration has outlined a policy of robust but conditional support for Syria’s transitional govern ment , pairing endorsement of its leaders’ calls for the maintenance of Syria’s unity and territorial integrity with insistence that they adopt a protective and inclusive approach toward all Syrian communities. The United States is support ing dialogue between the government and Kurdish forces and political figures that controlled areas of the northeast until government forces advanced in and reasserted control in January 2026. Some U.S. military forces remain deployed in north east Syria, but U .S. forces withdrew from an outpost in southern Syria in February 2026 and unnamed U.S. officials told press outlets on February 18 that preparations for a full withdrawal of U.S. forces are underway and may be complete within two months. U.S. forces trans ferred more than 5, 700 Islamic State prisoners formerly secured by U.S. partner s in the Syrian Democratic F orces (SDF) to neighboring Iraq following the Syrian government’s 2026 advance. The United States and European Union have extended broad sanctions re lief to the interim government in a bid