former President Hosni Mubarak in February 20 11. During this period, Egypt experienced tremendous political tumult, culminating in the one-year presidency of M ohamm ed Morsi, who was affiliated with the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood . In general, the Muslim Brotherhood has been the most significant and a biding opposition during the decades of military -backed rule. When Morsi took office on June 30, 2012, after winning Egypt’s first truly competitive presidential election, his ascension to the presidency was expected to mark the end of a rocky 16 - Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 3 month tra nsition period .5 Proposed timelines for elections, the constitutional drafting process, and the military’s relinquishing of power to a civilian government had been repeatedly changed, contested, and sometimes even overruled by the courts. Instead of consolidating democratic or civilian rule, Morsi’s rule exposed the deep divisions in Egyptian politics, pitting a broad cross - section of Egypt’s public and private sectors, the Coptic Church, and the military against the Brotherhood and its Is lamist supporters. The atmosphere of mutual distrust, political gridlock, and public dissatisfaction that permeated Morsi’s presidency provided Egypt’s military, led by then -Defense Minister Sisi, with an opportunity to reassert political control. On July 3, 2013, following several days of mass public demonstrations against Morsi’s rule, the military unilaterally dissolved Morsi’s government, suspended the constitution that had been passed dur ing his rule, and installed an interim president. The Muslim Bro therhood and its supporters declared the military’s actions a coup d’etat and protested in the streets. Weeks later, Egypt’s military and national police launched a violent crackdown against the Muslim Brotherhood, resulting in police and army soldiers fir ing live ammunition against demonstrators encamped in several public squares and the killing of at least 1,150 demonstrators. The Egyptian military justified these actions by decrying the encampments as a threat to national security.6 Since 2013, the powe r of President Abdel Fattah al Sisi has gone mostly unchallenged amidst a continuing crackdown and repression of Islamist and non -Islamist opposition figures. President Sisi assumed office formally in June 2014 after winning a May 2014 election with 96% of the vote. In 2018, he was reelected for a second term, receiving 97% of all valid votes cast. In 2023, Sisi was reelected for a third term, receiving 89.6% of the vote, though critics decried the election as a foregone conclusion.7 Issues for Congress Iran While Egypt does not play a major role in U.S. Iran policy writ large, granting U.S. Navy vessels expedited passage through the Suez Canal is a significant benefit to United States when it seeks to rapidly deploy military assets to the Persian Gulf area an d wider Indian Ocean basin . In early 2026, as President Trump has sought to deploy additional naval vessels to the Persian Gulf in the event of the use of military force against Iran, several U.S. navy vessels reportedly passed through the Suez Canal . Although expedited passage is a