Mary Beth D. Nikitin, and Luisa Blanchfield . 79 For background, see CRS Report RL33548, Comprehensive Nuclear -Test-Ban Treaty: Background and Current Developments , by Mary Beth D. Nikitin . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 15 States has signed the treaty but has not ratified it. As of May 2025 , 187 states had signed and 178 had ratified the CTBT . For the treaty to enter into force, 44 specified states must ratify it. Of these, 35 have ratified . India, North Korea, and Pakistan have not signed the treaty. China, Egypt, Iran, Israel, and the United States have signed but not ratified . The Russian Federation revoked its ratification from the CTBT in November 2023 and remains a signatory. CTBT states have held conferences every two year s since 1999 to discuss how to accelerate entry into force. Parties to the treaty agree “not to carry out any nuclear weapon test explosion or any other nuclear explosion.” The treaty establishes a Comprehensive Nuclear -Test-Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) of all member states to implement the treaty. The CTBTO Preparatory Commission (PrepCom) oversees a Conference of States Parties, an Executive Council, and a Provisional Technical Secretariat. The latter operate s an International Data Center to process and report on data from an International Monitoring System (IMS) . A protocol details the monitoring system and inspection procedures. The CTBTO Preparatory Commission conducts work to prepare for entry into force, such as building and ope rating the IMS (see below). The United States is party to p revious treaties that have restricted nuclear testing: the 1963 Limited Test Ban Treaty bar s explosions in the atmosphere, in outer space, and under water ; the 1974 U.S. -U.S.S.R. Threshold Test Ban Treaty bans underground nuclear weapons tests having an explosive force of more than 150 kilotons ; and the 1976 Peaceful Nuclear Explosions Treaty limit s the explosive yield of underground nuclear explosions. In 1992, Congress passed and President George H.W. Bush signed into law the Hatfield -Exon - Mitchell Amendment establishing a temporary and unilateral moratorium on underground testing of U.S. nuclear w eapons ( P.L. 102 -377, §507).80 It also directed the Administration to negotiate a comprehensive test ban treaty by 1996. The United States was the first country to sign th e CTBT in 1996. President Clinton submitted the treaty to the Senate for advice and consent to ratification in 1997 ( P.L. 102 -377). The Senate rejected the treaty by a vote of 48 for, 51 against, and one present, on October 13, 1999. Although the treaty has not entered into force, each subsequent U.S. President has indicated that the United States will continue to observe its unilateral moratorium.81 While the CTBT remains on the calendar of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, no Administration since has sought the Senate’s consent for ratification. The Trump Administration’s February 2018 Nuclear Posture Review said that “although the United States will not seek ratific ation