moves to “phase two ,”” Axios.com, January 14, 2026. 13 Adam Rasgon , Natan Odenheimer , and Abu Bakr Bashir , “Hamas Would Keep Some Arms Initially in Draft Gaza Plan, Officials Say ,” New York Times , February 10, 2026. 14 Khaled Hassan, “Egypt is revising its peace agreement with Israel,” Jewish Chronicle , January 7, 2026. 15 “New Gaza Crossing Raises Questions about Blockade Policies,” PolicyWatch #3205 , The Washington Institute for Near East Policy, October 23, 2019. 16 “Network linked to Egyptian intelligence sells entry permits to Sinai at exorbitant rates,” Le Monde, Janua ry 26, 2024. Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 6 negotiating over Rafah, Egypt has long feared being inundated with Palestinian refugees; Egypt had rejected President Trump’s earlier ca lls to relocate Gazans outside the Strip.17 Egypt constructed areas on its side of the border to contain any uncoordinated mass movements of Palestinians. Figure 4. European Monitors at the Rafah Crossing Source: EUBAM . On February 2, 2026, the Rafah crossing reopened for a limited number of persons seeking medical care in Egypt and for those Palestinians who left Gaza during the war to return. Under the terms of the reopening, Palestinian and European officials operate the crossing, but both Israel and Egypt vet the names of Gazans moving through Rafah . Israel also has a separate screening system it operates on Gazan territory it controls. Currently, restrictions in place permit 50 people to return to Gaza each day and 50 me dical patients —with two companions for each — are allowed to leave . An estimated 20,000 Gazans are seeking medical care outside the Strip.18 The Nile River, Ethiopia and the War in Sudan Egypt relies on the Nile River (see Figure 5) for hydroelectricity, agriculture, and most of its domestic water needs, and thus treats restrictions to the flow of the Nile from upstream countries as an existential issue. The government has been at odds wit h Nile Basin countries to Egypt ’s south that seek to revisit colonial -era treaties governing the allocation of Nile waters. Tensions are particularly strong with Ethiopia, which operates the $4.2 billion Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD), a major hydr oelectric project on the Blue Nile, which starts in Ethiopia. Egypt argues that the dam will limit the flow of the Nile below Egypt’s share, as agreed upon in a 1959 Egyptian deal with Sudan ( to which Ethiopia was not a party). Ethiopia claims that the dam , which would double its electricity generating capacity, is critical to its efforts to eradicate poverty. After years of failed talks, Egypt, Ethiopia, and Sudan continue to disagree over how much water should be released from the GERD on an annual basis, particularly during prolonged droughts. Reportedly, in order to pressure Ethiopia, Egypt may be militarily supporting the Fano, an Ethiopian rebel movement.19 17 Sherif Tarek, “Egypt Pushes Against Gaza Displacement Call with Rebuilding Plan,” Bloomberg , February 5, 2025. 18 “Gaza’s Rafah crossing opens