only in amounts justifiable for protective or peaceful purposes. Unlike the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC), the BWC does not specify particular biological agents but generically defines them as “microbial or other biological agents or toxins whatever their origin or method of production, of type s and in quantities that have no justification for prophylactic or peaceful purposes.” The convention does not contain any independent verification or enforcement mechanisms.151 BWC States Parties established the Implementation Support Unit in 2006 to help monit or and encourage BWC compliance .152 Review Conferences BWC states parties hold a Review Conference every five years to assess the implementation of the treaty and its relevance in the face of ongoing developments in biotechnology. Annual meetings are held between review conferences to informally consider relevant topics, as well as to address national bilateral and multilateral efforts to enhance biosecurity , including periodic expert -level meetings. 148 The agreement is more formally known as the Convention on t he Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) a nd Toxin Weapons and o n Their Destruction . The text of the BWC and associated documents a re available at http://www.un.org/ disarmament/ WMD/ Bio/index.shtml . 149 Ex. Q. 92 –2, Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biolog ical) and Toxin Weapons, and on Their Destruction and Congressional Record, December 16, 1974, vol. 120, part 30, Senate page 40030, GPO -CRECB -1974 -pt30-3-1.pdf . 150 UN Office of Disarmament Affairs website, https://treaties.unoda.org/ t/bwc/ participants . 151 Article V of the c onvention does speak to the issue of compliance, stating that the States Parties “und ertake to consult one another and to cooperate in solving any problems which may arise in relation to the objective of, or in the application of the provisions of, the Convention. Consultation and Cooperation pursuant to this article may also be undertaken through appropriate international procedures within the framework of the United Nations and in accordance with its Charter.” 152 United Nations Office of Disarmament Affairs, “Implementation Support Unit,” https://www.un.org/ disarmament/ biological -weapons/ implementation -support -unit/ Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 31 The Ninth BWC Revie w Conference took pl ace in late 2022.153 Its final document describes these meetings: The Meetings of States Parties engendered greater common understanding on steps to be taken to further strengthen the implementation of the Convention and considered several proposals on how to reflect the deliberations, including on any possible outcomes, of the Meetings of Experts, but the consideration was inconclusive. However, the Conference regrets that no consensus was reached on the deliberations, including on any possible outcomes, of the Meetings of Experts.154 Nevertheless, the document notes that BWC parties “will hold annual meetings between 2023 and 2026.”155 The conference also established a working group “to identify, examine and develop specific and effective measures ,” as well as recommend actions “to strengthen and institutionalise” the BWC.156 The group is to address the following