irreversibility of warhead reductions. Many analysts viewed this step as critical to lasting, predictable reductions in nuclear weap ons. The Bush Administration , how ever, rejecte d this approach. Although it pledged to eliminate some warheads removed from deployment, and implemented deep reductions in the U.S. stockpile of stored nuclear weapons, it did not offer any measures promoting the transparency or irreversi bility of this process. It wanted to retain U.S. flexibility and the ability to restore warheads to deploy ed forces. Many critics of the Bush A dministration oppose d this policy, in part, because they argued it would undermine U.S. efforts to encourage Russia t o eliminate warheads that might be at risk of loss or theft. Ballistic Missile Defenses and the ABM Treaty As was noted above, the 1972 Anti -Ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty and 1974 Protocol allowed the United States and Soviet Union to deploy limited defen ses against long -range ballistic missiles. The United States completed, then quickly abandoned a treaty -compliant ABM system near Grand Forks, ND, in 1974. The Soviet Union deployed, and Russia continues to operate, a treaty -compliant system around Moscow. Missile Defense Plans and Programs During the 1980s and early 1990s, the United States conducted research on a variety of ballistic missile defense technologies. In 1983 President Reagan collected and expanded these programs in the Strategic Defense Initi ative (SDI), which sought to develop and deploy comprehensive missile defenses that would defend the United States against a deliberate, massive attack from the Soviet Union. The first Bush Administration changed this focus, seeking instead to provide a defense against possible limited missile attacks that might arise from any number of countries throughout the world. After the Persian Gulf War in 1991, with Iraq’s attacks with Scud missiles alerting many to the dangers of missile proliferation and the thre ats posed by short - and medium -range theater ballistic missiles, the United States began developing several advanced theater missile defense (TMD) systems. At the same time, the Clinton Administration pursued research and technology Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 59 development for nationa l missile defenses (NMD). The Department of Defense concluded that there was no military requirement for the deployment of such a system after intelligence estimates found that no additional nations (beyond China, Russia, France, and the United Kingdom ) were likely to develop missiles that could threaten the continental United States for at least the next 10 - 15 years. However, after a congressionally mandated commission raised concerns about the proliferation of long -range missiles in July 1998 and North Ko rea tested a three -stage missile in August 1998, the Clinton Administration began to consider the deployment of an NMD, with a program structured to achieve that objective in 2005. On September 1, 2000, after disappointing test results, President Clinton a nnounced that he would not authorize construction needed to begin deployment of an NMD. President George W. Bush altered U.S.