uth Ossetia , as independent states . U.S. officials have noted that these steps are inconsistent with Russia’s obligation under the CFE Treaty “to refrain ... from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State .” In addition, because Russia has suspended its participation in the treaty, it has not allowed any on -site inspections and has not provided any data mandated by the treaty. Some observe rs, and Russian spokesmen, portrayed the Russian moves regardin g CFE as an asymmetrical response to the Bush Administration’s proposed deployment of a U.S. ground -based missile defense system in Poland and the Czech Republic.205 Others, including Chief of the Russia n General Staff Baluyevsky, discounted a specific link age, seeing the missile defense controversy as merely one element of a more broadly ranged dissatisfaction with changes in th e 203 “Russian MP Says New Structure o f European Security on the Agenda,” ITAR -TASS World Service , May 11, 2007. 204 Transcript of Secretary of State Rice Media Availability, Moscow, May 15, 2007. Federal Document Clearing House; Transcript of Hearing before the U.S. Commission on Security and C ooperation in Europe, May 24, 2007. Federal Document Clearing House. 205 “U.S. and NATO Dissect Putin Treaty Threat,” Financial Times , April 27, 2007 , p. 2. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 47 European security environment, which, from the Russian perspective, have favored the NATO allies .206 In November 2011, the United States announced that it would stop implementing its data exchange obligations under the CFE Treaty with respect to Russia. The United States would continue to share data with other treaty partners, and would not exceed the num erical limits on conventional armaments and equipment established by the treaty . But it would withhold data from Russia because it has refused to accept inspections and ceased to provide information to other CFE Treaty parties since its 2007 decision. The U.S. State Department, in its statement on the treaty, indicated that the United States remained committed to revitalizing conventional arms control in Europe. It also indicated that, in order to increase transparency and promote stability in the region, t he United States would voluntarily inform Russia of any significant change in the U.S. force posture in Europe. NATO signatories of the treaty similarly suspended treaty implementation with Russia in November 2022 but continued to provide data and engage w ith other non -NATO Treaty signatories.207 On November 7, 2023, Russia formally withdrew from CFE, citing the West’s lack of interest in considering Russian security interests.208 On November 7, U.S. officials stated that, after a NATO decision to suspend CFE Treaty obligations, the United States would also suspend its CFE obligations effective December 7, 2023.209 On April 5, 2024, Belarus also announced that it would suspend its treaty participation.210 NATO allies, including Turkey and Hungary, also sought to suspend their obligations under the treaty in April 2024.211 Treaty on