-range nuclear delivery systems that might not count under the treaty limits. While some argued that the United States and Russia should extend New START first, then discuss measures to bring these weapons into the treaty framework, others suggested that the United States withhold approval of an extension unless Russia first agrees to count these weapons under the treaty limits. On January 21, 2021, the Biden Administration announced that it planne d to extend New START for five years. Russia agreed with this approach. The extension took effect on February 3, 2021. At the time, the State Department noted the extension would provide “the stability and predictability [needed] to enhance and expand disc ussions with Russia and China” on further nuclear arms reductions.220 Compliance Issues Biannual New START T reaty data exchanges continued during the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID -19) pandemic, but in March 2020 both countries agreed to pause on-site inspections (OSI).221 After lifting the pause, the United States has invited Russia to conduct OSI in the United States since July 2022. Russia has not agreed to conduct such inspections or to host inspections on its territory. In January 2023, the State Department stated in a congressionally mandated annual report on New START implementation that it “cannot certify the Russian Federation to be in compliance with the terms of the New START Treaty.”222 It further stated that Russia had refused “to permit the United States to cond uct inspection activities on Russian territory” and had not convened a Bilateral Consultative Commission (BCC) under the terms of the Treaty. The report add ed that, while the United States was not able to make a determination regarding warheads on deployed delivery vehicles due to the lack of inspections, it “assesse [d] that Russia was likely under the New START warhead limit at the end of 2022” and, therefore, was not given a “determination of noncompliance.” According to an interview with a senior State D epartment official, the U.S. “intelligence community was able to confirm … that Russia did not, as of the end of [2023] , exceed the caps set by New START. … But without New START, we’re not able to perform the verification procedures and feel as confident i n our compliance assessments .”223 220 See @StateDeptSpok, Twitter, February 3, 2021. 221 U.S. Department of State, “Assistant Secretary Mallory Stewart’s Remarks at the Brookings Institution,” February 27, 2023. 222 U.S. Department of State, Report to Congress on Implementation of th e New START Treaty Pursuant to P aragraph (a)(10) of the Senate’s Resolution of Advice and Consent to Ratification of the New START Treaty (Treaty Doc. 111 -5), January 31, 2023. 223 “Engaging China and Russia on Arms Control: An Interview With Assistant Secretary of State Mallory Stewart, ” Arms Control Today , May 2024, https://www.armscontrol.org/ act/2024 -05/interviews/ engaging -china -and-russia -arms - control -interview -assistant -secretary -state. Also see U.S. Department of State , 2023 Report to Congress on Implementation of the New START Treaty , December 2023.