thousands, spurred military intervention by multiple countries, and fueled the rise of the Islamic State organization. The Asad government’s hostility to Israel, attempts to dominate neighboring Lebanon, alignment with R ussia, partnership with Iran, support for terrorist groups, and development and use of weapons of mass destruction had troubled U.S. policymakers for decades. Asad’s removal was a setback for some U.S. adversaries, but left many unanswered questions about Syria’s future. The country’s transition is proceeding under the direction of President Ahmed Al Sharaa, a former Al Qaeda member and leader of the now -disbanded Hayat Tahrir al Sham (HTS, see Appendix ), the Islamist armed group whose late 2024 offensive drove former president Bashar Al Asad into exile. Having asserted a prerogative to set terms for a five -year transitional period with limited input from others, Sharaa and his partners have concentrated decisionmaking among themselves. Transitional authorities have focused on reconstituting national security forces, extending the state’s remit to areas that initi ally were outside of transitional government control, achieving the removal of U.S. and international sanctions, and attracting investment to support Syria’s recovery . The U nited States and some other international actors have removed many Asad -era sanctio ns on Syria and some counterterrorism sanctions , creat ing opportunities for economic recovery and engagement. Nevertheless, terrorist threats from the Islamic State (IS, aka ISIS/ISIL) and others persist , intercommunal tensions are high, territorial contro l remains contested, and government capacity is limited . The World Bank estimates Syria’s needed reconstruction costs at nearly $216 billion. As of February 2026, UN agencies report ed that 1. 4 million Syrian refugees had returned to the country since Decem ber 2024 , but more than 3.7 million remained in regional countries . Additionally, more than 6 million Syrians remained internally displaced as of January 2026. Spasms of violence involving some minority populations have created a series of crises , killing and displacing civilians, and generat ing scrutiny of transitional leaders. These crises include incidents in Alawite majority areas of coastal western Syria in March 2025 and Druze majority areas of southern Syria in July 2025. In January 2026, the government forcefully reasserted control over several non -Kurdish majority areas that had long been secured by the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), the Kurdish -led coalition that through 2025 served as the principal U.S. partner force against the Islamic S tate. U.S.-backed agreement s established a ceasefire and set terms for the entry of government forces into Kurdish -majority areas and the integration of some wartime governing bodies and some SDF fighters into national units . The Trump Administration has pursued a policy of conditional support for the transitional government , endors ing Syrian leaders’ calls for territorial integrity and the extension of state authority, while insist ing the new government protect all Syrian communities. President Trump has met with Ahmed Al Sharaa twice. On February 18, unnamed Administration officials reportedly said that th e roughly 1,0 00 U.S. military personnel remaining in