the United States be prepared to combat terrorist threats in Syria? What contributions are others making to these efforts? • How might the success or failure of the integration of former U.S. part ner forces with Syrian government forces affect U.S. interests? Should the United States ensure the implementation of related agreements? If so, how? Should the United States enter into counterterrorism and defense cooperation agreement s with Syria’s trans itional government ? If so, on what terms? • What consideration or protection, if any, does the United States owe members of Syrian partner forces that have supported U.S. counterterrorism objectives to date? What posture should the United States adopt with r egard to the relationships between its Syrian partners and Syria’s government? How might 134 The act did not include a Senate -reported provision that would have required the Administration to certify the independent capabilities of U.S. -backed Syrian forces before reducing the number of U.S. troops in northeast Syria below 400. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 33 any such obligations best be reconciled with the security concerns of U.S. allies and any broader U.S. reputational interests? What type of relationship should the Un ited States have with Syria’s transitional government and other entities in post-Asad Syria ? The United States suspended diplomatic operations in Syria during the 2011 -2024 conflict, but did not sever diplomatic relations or durably transfer recognition t o any other Syrian entity. President Trump’s engagement with President Sharaa and ongoing engagement with Syrian leaders by Secretary of State Rubio and Special Envoy for Syria Barrack reflect a de facto U.S. recognition of Syria’s transitional authorities . The Administration and Congress have rescind ed many U.S. sanctions on the Syrian government and Syrian state entities that were imposed under the previous Syrian government, while maintaining targeted sanctions on Asad regime officials and maintaining a framework that would provide for the imposition of ne w sanctions on Syrian actors if deemed necessary. Uncertainty persists over the inclusivity of the transition and the Syrian government’s approach to minority communities. Possible questions Members may consider for oversight and legislative purposes inclu de the following: • When and on what terms , if any, should the U.S. government reestablish regular diplomatic relations with Syria’s transitional government? What diplomatic presence should the United States and Syria have in each other’s country, and what opportunities , risks, and costs might accompany the return of U.S. diplomatic personnel to Syria on a permanent basis? When and under what circumstances should the United States release any Syrian state funds blocked in the United States? • When, how, and on what terms should the United States alter remaining sanctions on Syria, Syrian state entities, or individuals and groups in Syria, including U.S. - designated terrorist entities and individuals? What specific executive or legislative sanctions measures, if a ny, ought to be altered and how? • Under what circumstances might sanctions be reimposed ? For what purposes , on what terms, and