process, with a primary role for the OPCW Secretariat. At the start of its civil war, Syria had more than 1,000 metric tons of chemical warfare agents and precursor chemicals, including several hundred metric tons of the nerve agent sarin, several hundred metric tons of mustard agent in ready -to-use form, and several metric tons of the nerve agent VX. A UN and OPCW Joint Mission oversaw the removal and destruction of these chemical weapons agents from Syria, and all Category 1 - and 2 -declared chemicals were destroyed as of June 2014. Destruction of chemical weapons production facilities is also complete, but serious questions remain over whether Syria has declared all of its chemical weapons stocks. The OPCW’s Declaration Assessment Team (DAT) continues to investigate these outstanding issues through interviews and lab analysis of samples from site visits. A 202 3 State Department report assessing CWC compliance131 says that the United States cannot certify that Syria is in compliance with the CWC, that Syria has been using chemical weapons systematically for years, has not declared “all elements” of its chemical we apons program , and has retained some chemical weapons. Ms. Izumi Nakamitsu, High Representative for Disarmament Affairs, reported in Ma y 2023 that, because of “gaps, inconsistencies and discrepancies that remain unresolved,” the OPCW “continues to assess” that Syria’s declaration “cannot be considered accurate and complete.”132 The Syrian government continues to categorically deny that it has used chemical weapons or toxic chemicals, while accusing opposition forces of doing so. The UN representatives of the United States, France, and the United Kingdom continue to cite information that, they argue, suggests Syrian government complicity in conducting ongoing chemical attacks, particularly with 129 “OPCW Director -General Congratulates Iraq on Complete Destruction of Chemical Weapons Remnants,” March 13, 2018. Iraq had destroyed most o f its chemical weapons following the 1991 Persian Gulf War but declared “remnants of chemical weapons” after acceding to the CWC in 2009. 130 For more information on the history of the chemical weapons in Syria, see CRS Report R42848, Syria’s Chemical Weapons: Issues for Congress , coordinated by Mary Beth D. Nikitin , Syria’s Chemical Weapons: Issues for Congress, coordinated by Mary Beth D. Nikitin. 131 Compliance with the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction Condition (10)(C) Report , U.S. Department of State, April 2023. The 2024 report echoed this assessment. 132 “Briefing to the Security Council on the Implementation of S ecurity Council Resolution 2118 (2013), ” Briefing by Ms. Izumi Nakamitsu High Representative for Disarmament Affairs, May 8, 2023. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 28 chlorine. Expert teams affiliated with the Joint UN Mission to Inv estigate Allegations of the Use of Chemical Weapons in the Syrian Arab Republic (JIM) and the OPCW Fact Finding Mission (FFM) in Syria have investigated some of these allegations and have found evidence that in some cases confirms and