programs supporting U.S. implementation of treaty commitments, nonproliferation assistance to international partners, and counterproliferation measures, as well as fundi ng for international organizations implementing relevant treaties. Arms Control and Nonproliferation since the Cold War During the Cold War, arms control played a key role in the relationship between the United States and Soviet Union. Although the agreeme nts rarely forced either side to accept significant changes in its planned nuclear forces, the arms control process, and the formal negotiations, were often one of the few channels for communication between the United States and Soviet Union. Further, the United States participated in many multilateral regimes that sought to limit the spread of nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons and their means of delivery. Beginning in the early 1990s, it also extended assistance to Russia and other former Soviet st ates in an effort to reduce the threat that these weapons might fall into the hands of hostile states or non state actors. It has explor ed the possible use of similar tools to provide other states with assistance in containing and controlling weapons and we apons -grade materials.7 The changing international environment in the 1990s led many analysts to believe that the United States and other countries could enter a new era of restraint in weapons deployments, weapons 5 In December 1991, Congress authorized the transfer of $400 million from the FY1992 Department of Defense (DOD) budget to help the republics that inherited the Soviet nuclear and chemical weapons stockpile —Russia, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, and Belarus —transport and dismantle these weapons. This effort gr ew substantially, with Congress appropriatin g more than $1 billion each year for programs a dministered by the DOD, the State Department, and the Department of Energy (DOE). 6 For background, see CRS Report R43143, The Evolution of Cooperative Threat Reduction: Issues for Congress , by Mary Beth D. Nikitin and Amy F. Woolf . 7 For a recent example, see CRS Insight IN12 480, Current Issues for Syria’s Chemical Weapons and Nuclear Weapons Programs , by Paul K. Kerr and Mary Beth D. Nikitin . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 4 transfers, and military operations. Thes e policies were codified in several treaties signed between 1991 and 1996, such as the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaties (START I and START II), the Chemical Weapons Convention, and the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. During the Clinton Administrati on, an agreement with North Korea temporarily froze its nuclear weapons production facilities.8 The NPT was permanently extended in 1995, and the IAEA safeguards regime was strengthened with the Additional Protocol. In 1997, the United States and Russia — the two countries with the largest stockpiles of chemical weapons —both ratified the Chemical Weapons Convention. In December 1997, more than 120 states signed an international ag reement banning the use of anti personnel land mines; however, a number of major countries , including the United States, have so far declined to sign. Yet, for many,