The War and Humanitarian Crisis in Sudan , by Lauren Ploch Blanchard . 22 “Trump offers to mediate Egypt -Ethiopia dispute on Nile River waters,” Reuters, January 16, 2026. 23 “Egypt calls on US not to interfere in its affairs,” The Middle East Monitor , March 15, 2019. 24 Government of Egypt, State Information Service, Egypt and Human Rights, February 3, 2022. 25 Heba Saleh, “ Critics of Egypt’s regime given rare platform ahead of elections ,” Financial Times (UK),” June 27, 2023. 26 Vivian Yee, “ Facing Crisis, Egypt’s Leader Tries New Tack: Talking to Opponents ,” New York Times , June 13, 2023. Figure 5. The Nile River Source: CRS Graphics. Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 8 government designated as a terrorist group in 2013).27 Certain practices of President Sisi’s government, the parliament, and the security apparatus have been the subjects of U.S. criticism, including Egypt’s detention and treatment of U.S. citizens. Accord ing to the U.S. State Department’ s report on human rig hts conditions in Egypt in 202 4 Significant human rights issues included credible reports of: torture or cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment; arbitrary arrest and detention; instances of transnational repression against individuals in another country; serious restrictions on freedom of expression and media freedom, including unjustified arrests or prosecutions of journalists and censorship; significant restrictions on workers’ freedom of association; and significant presence of some of the worst forms of child labor .28 Select international human rights, democracy, and development monitoring organizations provide the following global rankings for Egypt (see Table 1). T able 1. Democracy, Human Rights , and Development Indicators Issue Index Ranking Democracy Freedom House, Freedom in the World 202 5 “Not Free” Press Freedom Reporters Without Borders , World Press Freedom Index 202 5 170/180 Countries Corruption Transparency International, C orruption Perceptions Index 202 5 130/180 Countries Human Development United Nations Human Development Program me, Human Development Index 202 3 100/193 Countries Source s: Freedom House, Reporters Without Borders, Transparency International , and United Nations Human Development Programme. Coptic Christians Most Egyptians are Sunni Muslims (perhaps 90% ).29 A relatively small percentage are Coptic Christians, and this minority has faced discrimination and persecution, from the government as well as from other citizens and terrorist groups. For years, the Coptic Christian community in Egypt has called for equal treatment under the law , and members of the community have won several court cases, beginning in 2019 .30 Since taking office, President Sisi has publicly called for greater Muslim -Christian coexistence and national unity. In January 20 19, he inaugurated Egypt’s Coptic Cathedral of Nativity in the New Administrative C apital east of Cairo saying, “ This is an important moment in our history .... We are one and we will remain one.”31 Despite these public calls for improved interfaith relations in Egypt, the Coptic Christian community continues to face professional and social discrimination, along with occasional 27 “Egypt’s National Political Dialogue agrees on social issues to