Arms Reduction Treaty (START) on July 31, 1991. START After the Soviet Union The demise of the Soviet Union in December 1991 immediately raised questions about the future of the treaty. At t hat time, about 70% of the strategic nuclear weapons covered by START were deployed at bases in Russia; the other 30% were deployed in Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and Belarus.214 Russia initially sought to be the sole successor to the Soviet Union for the treaty, but the other three republics did not want to cede all responsibility for the Soviet Union’s nuclear status and treaty obligations to Russia. In May 1992, the four republics and the United States signed a Protocol that made all four republi cs parties to th e treaty. At the same time, the leaders of Belarus, Ukraine, and Kazakhstan agreed to eliminate all of their nuclear weapons during the seven -year reduction period outlined in START. They also agreed to sign the Nuclear Non - Proliferation Treaty (NPT) as no nnuclear weapons states. The U.S. Senate gave its consent to the ratification of START on October 1, 1992. The Russian parliament consented to the ratification of START on November 4, 1992, but it stated that Russia would not exchange the instr uments of ratification for the t reaty until all three of the other republics adhered to the NPT as nonnuclear states. Kazakhstan completed the ratification process in June 1992 and joined the NPT as a nonnuclear weapon state on February 14, 1994. Belarus approved ST ART and the NPT on February 4, 1993, and formally joined the NPT as a nonnuclear weapon state on July 22, 1993. Ukraine’s parliament approved START in November 1993, but its approval was conditioned on Ukraine’s retention of some of the weapons based on it s territory and the provision of security guarantees by the other nuclear weapons states. In early 1994, after the United States, Russia, and Ukraine agreed that Ukraine should receive compensation and security assurances in exchange for the weapons based on its soil, the parliament removed the conditions from its resolution of ratification. But it still did not approve Ukraine’s accession to the NPT. The Ukrainian parliament took this final step on November 16, 213 See CRS Report R43832, Russian Compliance with the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty: Background and Issues for Congress , by Amy F. Woolf , and CRS In Focus IF11051, U.S. Withdrawal f rom the INF Treaty: What’s Next? , by Amy F. Woolf . 214 Leaders in these the non -Russian republics did not have control over the use of the nuclear weapons on their territory. Russian Pres ident Boris Yeltsin, and now Vla dimir Putin, is the sole successor to the Soviet President in the command and control structure for Soviet nuclear weapons and he, along with his Minister of Defense and Military Chief of Staff, have the codes needed to launch Soviet nuclear weapons. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service