cooperate o n missile defense, proposing the use of a Russian -leased radar in Azerbaijan, but urging that U.S. facilities not be built in Eastern Europe. President Bush welcomed the idea in principle, but insisted upon the need for the European sites. Despite ongoing discussions over the issue, sharp Russian criticism of the program continued. Medvedev said that Russia might deploy Iskander tactical missiles to Kaliningrad, but later stated that Moscow would not do so if the United States reversed its plan to emplace G MD facilities in Poland and the Czech Republic. Congress resisted the Bush Administration’s request for funding for this system. It withheld much of the funding, pending at least two successful tests and the completion of agreements with the Polish and Cz ech governments. It also requested further reports on the need for and capabilities of the proposed system. The Obama Administration reviewed and restructured U.S. plans for a missile defense site in Europe. On September 17, 2009, the Administration annou nced it would cancel the system proposed by the Bush Administration. Instead, Defense Secretary Gates announced U.S. plans to develop and deploy a regional BMD capability that could be deployed around the world on relatively short notice during crises or a s the situation may demand. Gates argued this new capability, based primarily around current BMD sensors and interceptors, would be more responsive and adaptable to growing concern over the direction of Iranian short - and medium - range ballistic missile pro liferation. This capability would continue to evolve and expand as the United States moved forward with the concept known as the “Phased Adaptive Approach.” As 217 See CRS Report 98 -496, Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty Demarcation and Succession Agreements: Background and Issues , by Amy F. Woolf . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 61 missile threats matured during the next decade, the missile defense system would include interce ptors that could respond against more numerous and more sophisticated threats. The United States and its NATO allies have moved forward with the deployment of components of this missile defense system; ships armed with the Aegis missile defense system are deployed at Rota, Spain, and patrol regularly in the Mediterranean. The United States has also deployed missile defense assets on land in Europe, in an effort known as Aegis Ashore. The United States completed deployment of the site in Romania on December 1, 2015, and plans to complete the deployment in Poland in the 2018 -2019 time frame. While the United States insists that these systems do not have the range or capability to threaten Russian ballistic missiles, Russia continues to object to these deploym ents and to insist that it is unwilling to discuss further limits on offensive weapons until the United States agrees to limit the numbers and capabilities of its missile defense systems. The Trump Administration completed a new Missile Defense Review in 2 019. This review continues to support the deployment of missile defenses