this total, the t reaty contained 212 https://2017 -2021.state. gov/briefing -with-special -presidential -envoy -for-arms -control -marshall -billingslea -and- assistant -secretary -for-international -security -and-nonproliferation -dr-christopher -a-ford-on-the-treaty -on-ope/ index.html . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 51 sublimits for the numbers launchers that could be deployed for ICBMs with multiple independent reentry vehicles (MIRVed ICBMs); MIRVed ICBMs and MIRVed SLBMs; and MIRVed ICB Ms, MIRVed SLBMs, MIRVed air -to-surface ballistic missiles (ASBMs) , and heavy bombers. The Treaty would not have limited the total number of warheads that could be carried on these delivery vehicles, which was a growing concern with the deployme nt of large numbers of multiple -warhead missiles, but the nations did agree that they would not increase the numbers of warheads on existing types of missiles and would not test new types of ICBMs with more than 10 warheads and new types of SLBMs with more than 14 wa rheads. They also agreed to provisions that were designed to limit missile modernization programs, in an effort to restrain qualitative improvements in their strategic forces. Although it contained equal limits on U.S. and Soviet forces, the SALT II Treaty still proved to be highly controversial. Some analysts argued that the t reaty would fail to curb the arms race because the limits on forces were equal to the numbers already deployed by the United States and Soviet Union; they argued for lower limits and actual reductions. Other analysts argued that the treaty would allow the Soviet Union to maintain strategic superiority over the United States because the Soviet force of large, land -based ballistic missiles would be able to carry far greater numbers of wa rheads, even within the equal limits on delivery vehicles, than U.S. ballistic missiles. Some argued that, with this advantage, the Soviet Union would be able to target all U.S. land-based ICBMs in a first strike, which created a “window of vulnerability” for the United States. The Treaty’s supporters argued that the Soviet advantage in large MIRVed ICBMs was more than offset by the U.S. advantage in SLBM warheads, which could not be destroyed in a first strike and could retaliate against Soviet targets, an d the U.S. advantage in heavy bombers. The continuing Soviet build -up of strategic nuclear forces, along with the taking of U.S. hostages in Iran and other challenges to the U.S. international position in the late 1970s, combined with t he perceived weaknes ses to the t reaty to raise questions about whether the Senate would muster the votes needed to consent to the t reaty’s ratification. Shortly after the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in December 1979, President Carter withdrew the t reaty from the Senate’s consideration. The ABM Treaty The 1972 ABM Treaty permitted the United States and Soviet Union to deploy ABM interceptors at two sites, one centered on the nation’s capital and one containing ICBM silo launchers. Each site could contain up to 100 ground -based launchers for ABM interceptor