anywhere.”76 All five nuclear weapons states have concluded a voluntary offer agreement under which they h ave agreed to safeguards on certain nuclear material and facilities used for peaceful purposes. Non -NPT states may also conclude an item -specific safeguards agreement. NNWS are required to declare and submit all nuclear materials in their possession to reg ular IAEA inspections to ensure that sensitive nuclear materials and technologies are not diverted from civilian to military purposes. Some states who are not parties to the NPT (India, Israel, Pakistan) are members of the IAEA and allow inspections of som e, but not all, of their nuclear activities. The IAEA also provides technical assistance for peaceful applications of nuclear technology in such fields as energy, medicine, agriculture, and research. After the 1991 Persian Gulf War, IAEA inspection teams working with the UN Special Commission on Iraq (UNSCOM) revealed an extensive covert nuclear weapons program that had been virtually undetected by annual inspections of Baghdad’s declared facilities. This knowledge inspired efforts to stre ngthen the IAEA’s authority to conduct more intrusive inspections of a wider variety of installations, to provide the a gency with information about suspected covert nuclear activities, and to provide the IAEA with the resources and political support needed to increase confidence in its safeguards system. In 199 7, the IAEA adopted an “Additional Protocol” that would give the agency greater authority and access to verify nuclear declarations. The protocol enters into force for individual NPT states upon ratif ication . All five nuclear weapon states have concluded an Additional Protocol under their voluntary offer agreements. As of December 2024, an Additional Protocol has entered into force for 143 countries and Euratom .77 The IAEA has had an expanded mission in recent years, increasingly called upon to implement nuclear and radiological security -related activities. The IAEA also faces a potential worldwide expansion in the number of nuclear power plants it will need to monitor. The United States funds approxim ately one -quarter of the IAEA’s annual budget (assessed contribution) and additional voluntary (extra budgetary) contributions for specific activities, such as nuclear security.78 Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) The Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTB T) is a treaty to ban all nuclear explosions.79 It opened for signature in 1996 but has not yet entered into force. In the years since the treaty opened for signature, India, Pakistan, and North Korea have conducted explosive nuclear tests. The United 76 INFCIRC/153. Available at https://www.iaea.o rg/sites/ default/ files/ publications/ documents/ infcircs/ 1972/ infcirc153.pdf . 77 “Status of the Additional Protocol,” IAEA website, https://www.iaea.org/ sites/ default/ files/20/01/sg-ap-status.pdf . 78 See also CRS Report R44384, IAEA Budget and U.S. Contributions: In Brief , by Paul K. Kerr, Mary Beth D. Nikitin, and Luisa Blanchfield . 79 For background, see CRS Report RL33548, Comprehensive Nuclear -Test-Ban Treaty: Background and Current Developments , by Mary Beth D. Nikitin . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 15 States has signed the treaty but