PKK -Türkiye dilemma is really complicated. And YPG was a spinoff of PKK that we allied with to fight ISIS. ” State Department, “ Strengthening U.S. -Türkiye Relations and Advancing Relations with Syria ,” July 11, 2025. In May 2025, a PKK congress decided to disband the PKK and end its armed struggle against the Turkish government, subject t o various implementation steps. “Full text: PKK’s statement on disbanding decision ,” Bianet , May 13, 2025; and Rebecca Lucas, “ Disbanding the PKK: Political Engagement as the Key to Ending Insurgencies ,” RAND, June 10, 2025. 15 Syrian Minister of Informatio n Hamza Mustafa, Statement by the Syrian Government on the Ceasefire Agreement , X post, January 30, 2026, https://x.com/ HmzhMo/ status/ 2017151630978781256 . Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 8 some Syrian Kurds. Enduring resolution of these and other long -standing Kurdish communal concerns about governance and resource sharing may require reconciling the varying demands of the politically diverse Syrian Kurdish community with the transitional government’s insistence on precluding regional autonomy and identifyi ng Syria as a primarily Arab state . Prior to the government -SDF confrontations, the population of eastern Syria had not been united in support of SDF goals: within SDF -held areas, urban and rural communities have expressed varying needs and concerns, while members of Arab, Turkmen, and Kurdish ethnic groups and members of Christian, Muslim, and secular communities have appeared to have divergent priorities. Under the January agreement s, the two sides have proceeded with the “withdrawal of military forces fr om points of contact” and the agreed entry of national government forces from the Ministry of Interior into the SDF -held cities of Al Hasakah and Qamishli. The agreements ’ call for the creation of new brigades may involve individualized vetting and changes to the command and composition of SDF units. The return of displaced persons under the agreement s may include the return of Syrian Kurds to areas where property and other intercommunal disputes could erupt. The United States and the Security of Northeast Syria Since 2015, the U.S. military has operated in Syria and support ed local partner forces to fight the Islamic State. Through 2025, the main U.S. partner in this effort ha s been the Syrian Democratic Forces, a coalition of armed groups whose leaders a nd strongest components are members of the People’s Protection Units (YPG), a Syrian Kurdish nationalist militia with links to the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), a U.S. -designated Foreign Terrorist Organization.16 In 2017, the United States began overtly a rming the YPG and other SDF elements, and by early 2019, YPG -led SDF forces backed by U.S. forces had succeeded in ending the Islamic State’s control of territory north of the Euphrates River in Syria. SDF forces took control of thousands of captured IS fi ghters and secured camps for persons displaced from IS -held areas. The SDF partner ed with an Autonomous Administration of North and East Syria (AANES) to govern a