or other nuclear explosive devices.” This includes a prohibition on hosting nuclear weapons that are owned or controlled b y another state. Nor would states parties transfer, receive control over, or assist others in develo ping nuclear weapons. T hey also would not use or threaten to use nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices. Article 7 requires states to give assistance to individuals affected by the use or testing of nuclear weapons and provide for environmental remediation. Treaty supporters seek to establish an international norm against the possession and use of nuclear weapons, which they argue would strengthen nonproliferation norms and raise awareness of the humanitarian consequences of developing and usin g nuclear weapons. Some critics of the ban treaty are concerned that a new agreement would undermine the NPT and its verification system of International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards. The United States opposed a ban treaty and, along with 40 oth er states, did not participate in negotiations. In response to the conclusion of the treaty, a joint press release from the United States, UK, and French Permanent Representatives said, “ A purported ban on nuclear weapons that does not address the security concerns that continue to make nuclear deterrence necessary cannot result in the elimination of a single nuclear weapon and will not enhance any country’s security, nor international peace and security .”161 The Arms Trade Treaty (ATT)162 The Arms Trade Tre aty (ATT) is a multilateral treaty of unlimited duration. Its stated objectives are to “[e]stablish the highest possible common international standards for regulating or improving the regulation of the international trade in conventional arms ...” and to “ [p]revent and eradicate the illicit trade in conventional arms and prevent their diversion.” A 2004 speech in support of the ATT concept by the British Foreign Secretary is widely credited as giving critical momentum to the treaty. Beginning in 2006, the t reaty was negotiated in the UN General Assembly (UNGA) and specialized fora. A UNGA vote in early April 2013 approved the treaty in its negotiated form. The ATT opened for sign ature on June 3, 2013, and enter ed into force on December 24, 2014. The United States participated in drafting the ATT and voted for the treaty in the UNGA on April 2, 2013. The United States signe d the ATT, which currently has 116 parties and 130 signatories, on September 25, 2013. President Barack O bama transmitted the treaty to the Senate for advice and consent for ratification on December 9, 2016, but the Senate has not voted on the treaty.163 President Donald Trump notified the Senate on April 29, 2019 , that he had “decided to withdraw” the ATT fro m the Senate and requested the Senate to return the treaty to the President.164 On May 161 Joint Press Statement from the Permanent Representatives to the United Nations of the United States, United Kingdom, and France Following the Adoption of a Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapons, July 7, 2017, https://usun.state.gov/ remarks/ 7892