U.S. Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security Ambassador Bonnie Jenkins said to the CD on February 27, 2023, “We can and should start by immediately commencing negotiations on a non - 94 Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken, Remarks at the High -Level Segment of the Conference on Disarmament, February 22, 2021, https://geneva.usmission.gov/ 2021/ 02/22/secretary -blinken -cd/. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 19 discriminatory, multilateral, and internationally and effectively verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material for use in nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices.”95 In addition to verification p rovisions, another key sticking point has been whether such a treaty would seek to include existing stocks of fissile material.96 The United States has strongly objected to such an approach .97 The Shannon Mandate states that it “does not preclude any deleg ation” from proposing the inclusion of existing stocks in the negotiations . Pakistan, which is widely regarded as the main opponent to the start of negotiations, argues that a treaty on fissile material should not only prohibit the production of new materi al, but should also require states with such material to reduce their stocks . This may be partly due to its concerns over strategic parity with India.98 Some observers have also argued that a forum other than the CD might be better for such treaty negotiations because the conference operates on the basis of consensus and any one member, as seen with Pakistan, can block negotiations. Several UN General Ass embly resolutions have established expert groups to make recommendations on a way forward. These groups have been geographically diverse and have included nuclear weapon and nonnuclear weapon states. Canada chaired a UN group of governmental experts on the FMCT from 2014 to 2015. A 2016 UN General Assembly resolution requested that the Secretary -General establish a “high -level fissile material cut -off treaty (FMCT) expert preparatory group” to “examine” the experts’ group report, as well as “consider and make recommendations on substantial elements of a future non -discriminatory, multilateral and interna tionally and effectively verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices, on the basis” of the Shannon Man date. The 25-member group issued a report in 2018 that provides a “menu of potenti al treaty elements that would facilitate the task of future negotiators” and covers scope, definitions, verification, and legal and institutional arrangements.99 The report recommended that negotiations take place “without delay” in the Conference on Disar mament, but the CD has not begun talks. The United States participates in the Friends of the FMCT, which was announced in March 2024 by Japan. According to the Japanese Foreign Ministry, FMCT Friends is “ a cross -regional group with the participation of bo th nuclear -weapon States and non -nuclear -weapon States which aims to maintain and enhance political attention on an FMCT and to contribute to expand the support for the negotiation