Islamic State’s control of territory north of the Euphrates River in Syria. SDF forces took control of thousands of captured IS fi ghters and secured camps for persons displaced from IS -held areas. The SDF partner ed with an Autonomous Administration of North and East Syria (AANES) to govern a de facto autonomous zone that included Kurdish -majority areas but later encompassed Arab-majority areas formerly held by the Islamic State . The government of Turkey consistently objected to U.S. partnership with the YPG, characterizing the group and the wider SDF coalition as terrorists. 17 In response to the YPG's consolidation of contiguous control over much of northern Syria's border areas by 2016, Turkey and allied Syrian militias conducted three significant military operations (in 2016, 2018, and 2019) that replaced YPG rule in some are as adjacent to Turkey with Turkish - backed Syrian forces. Turkey -Russia arrangements reached in 2019 and 2020 provided for an end to Turkish advances and joint patrols aimed at limiting the presence of the YPG and SDF in areas near the Turkish border. As th e Asad government collapsed in late 2024, Russian forces implementing Turkey -Russia agreements withdrew. SDF forces moved into areas that had been under pro -Asad forces’ control, including the city of Deir -ez-Zor. In 2025, HTS forces and their local partne rs moved to assert authority in these areas, and SDF forces withdrew north of the Euphrates River. To the west, Turkey -backed Arab militia groups expelled YPG and SDF forces from some areas north and east of Aleppo , before a ceasefire was reached. A March 2025 agreement between the SDF and the interim government created a framework for the possible future integration of security forces and administrative entities in the northeast with the national government , but implementation stalled over competing SDF a nd government demands . Ahmed Al Sharaa publicly rejected any future territorial division of Syria or the use of Syrian territory by any entity to threaten Syria’s neighbors, insisting on the exclusive control of weapons by state security forces while stati ng his intent to resolve issues with the SDF through dialogue.18 SDF Commander and YPG leader Mazloum Abdi said the SDF was “not pursuing separatism” and envisioned itself “as an integral part of a unified Syrian army, as part of a broader political soluti on.”19 The United States supported SDF-government talks , but impasses remained , and conflict erupted in December 2025 . 16 In a July 2025 briefing, U.S. Ambassador to Turkey and Special Envoy for Syria Thomas Barrack said, “SDF is YPG …. And YPG was a spinoff of PKK that we allied with to fight ISIS.” State Department, “St rengthening U.S. -Türkiye Relations and Advancing Relations with Syria,” July 11, 2025. 17 See CRS Insight IN12473, Turkey (Türkiye) in Syria: Key U.S. Policy Issues , by Jim Zanotti and Clayton Thomas . 18 MEMRI Translation #11695, reviewed by CRS, Source - Al-Arabiya Network, December 29, 2024. 19 “‘We want change to