s tated that the United States determined that “the Russian Federation is in violation of its obligations under the [1987 Intermediate -range Nuclear Forces] INF Treaty not to possess, produce, or flight -test a ground -launched cruise missile (GLCM) with a range capability of 500 km to 5,500 km, or to possess or produce launchers of such missiles.” In the 2018 version of the report, it identified the missile’s designation as the 9M729. The United States addressed its concerns about this missile repeatedly with Russia in a number of diplomatic meetings, including in 2016 and 2017 meetings of the treat y’s Special Verification Commission (SVC). Russia first denied that any such cruise missile existed, and after the United States identified the specific missile, Russia denied that it had been tested to INF range. It responded with its own accusations of U .S. noncompliance, noting, particularly, that U.S. missile defense launchers located in Romania could be equipped with offensive ground -launched cruise missiles. The United States has denied this accusation. According to U.S. officials, Russia began to dep loy the new cruise missile in late 2016 . The Trump Administration conducted an extensive review of the INF Treaty during 2017 to assess the potential security implications of Russia’s violation and to determine how the United States would respond going for ward. On Decembe r 8, 2017 —the 30th anniversary of da te when the treaty was signed —the Administration announced that the United States would implement an integrated response that included diplomatic, military, and economic measures. This includes Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 54 establishi ng a new program in the Pentagon that will fund research into a possible new ground - launched cruise missile . However, in October 2018, then -Secretary of Defense Mattis informed U.S. allies in NATO that the situation had become “untenable” because Russia re fused to acknowledge and address its violation. On October 20, 2018, President Trump announced that the United States would withdraw from the treaty, and Secretary of State Pompeo announced that the United States had submitted its formal notice of withdraw al to Russia on February 1, 2019. Russia followed suit by suspending its participation in the treaty. The United States implemented its withdrawal, and the treaty lapsed on August 2, 2019.213 The Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) Like INF, START negot iations began in 1982, but stopped between 1983 and 1985 after a Soviet walk -out in response to the U.S. deployment of intermediate -range missiles in Europe. They resumed later in the Reagan Administration, and were concluded in the first Bush Administrati on. The United States and Soviet Union signed the first Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) on July 31, 1991. START After the Soviet Union The demise of the Soviet Union in December 1991 immediately raised questions about the future of the treaty. At t hat time, about 70% of the strategic nuclear weapons covered by START were deployed at bases in