closed, and the Rafah crossing’s status became a source of consternation between the Israeli and Egyptian governments. Israel accused Egypt of turning a blind eye to Hamas ’ underground smuggling tunnels in Rafah , while Egypt accus ed Israel of violating the 1979 Israel -Egypt peace treaty by stationing military forces along Egypt’s border unilaterally . Israel also accused Egypt of violating the treaty for deploying additional forces to the Sinai.14 Between 2007 and 2023, when Hamas controlled the Gazan side of Rafah, Egypt used the crossing both as a source of leverage against Hamas and revenue for military -connected officials, all -the-while taking some steps to curb smuggling. According to one report, both Hamas and Egypt used to ta x imported goods moving into Gaza through the Rafah gate, once earning Hamas tens of millions of dollars per year in revenue.15 In addition, intermediaries with ties to Egyptian intelligence reportedly had sold exit access through Rafah to Palestinians wit h means for exorbitant prices.16 In the 2007 -2023 time frame, the Egyptian military took a number of steps to stop smuggling -tunnel construction beneath the Egyptian -Gaza border. It created a “buffer zone ” along the Gaza border by demolishing parts of Rafah city (on the Egyptian side) and flood ed trenches in the area with seawater from the Mediterranean. The military also erected concrete walls and barbed -wire fencing along the buffer zone to protect agains t terrorist attacks emanating from the Sinai . President Trump’s 20 -point plan mentioned the reopening of the Rafah crossing, and Israel, Egypt, and others negotiated for several months over the conditions of its reopening. Israel refused to reopen the cro ssing until Hamas had returned the remains of Israel’s last hostage in Gaza, Ran Gvili (which it did on January 26). In 10 It is unclear whether Resolution 2803 provides a broad mandate for the ISF to use force against Hamas or other “non -state armed groups” in Gaza under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. See, Samiksha Mukherjee and Sanmay Moitra, “ An Analysis of Resolutio n 2803 and the International Stabilization Force: A Militarized Enforcement Mission with Precarious Legal and Strategic Implications ,” Just Security, December 10, 2025. 11 Rina Bassist, “ As phase 2 looms, Netanyahu insists no Turkish or Qatari troops in Gaz a,” Al-Monitor , January 27, 2026; Nava Freiberg, “Egypt and EU stepping up preparations to dispatch Palestinian police force to Gaza,” Times of Israel , December 2, 2025; Dov Lieber and Summer Said, “ U.S. Pushes a Hamas -Free ‘Green Zone ,’” Wall Street Journ al, November 21, 2025. 12 Barak Ravid, “ U.S. thinks Hamas is ready to demilitarize as Gaza deal moves to “phase two ,”” Axios.com, January 14, 2026. 13 Adam Rasgon , Natan Odenheimer , and Abu Bakr Bashir , “Hamas Would Keep Some Arms Initially in Draft Gaza Plan, Officials Say ,” New York Times , February 10, 2026. 14 Khaled Hassan, “Egypt is revising its peace agreement