appropriations from the CTEF account. The Administration has not publicly clarified how, if at all, its plans for the implementation of train and equip activiti es in Syria may change given changes to the roles and responsibilities of SDF and transitional government forces in northeastern Syria and the withdrawal of U.S. forces from southern Syria . As discussed above, the January 2026 SDF -Damascus agreement calls for the integration of some SDF personnel into units of the Syrian security forces, but specific plans for implementation, command, and vetting have not been announced. U.S.-supported Syrian Free Army forces in southern Syria continue to integrate with nat ional forces. The FY2026 defense appropriation s act includes a waiver authority to allow for the provision of assistance to vetted Syrian forces notwithstanding other provisions of law that restrict U.S. assistance and transactions with Syria because of Sy ria’s designation as a state sponsor of terrorism. U.S. Stabilization and Foreign Assistance U.S. stabilization and foreign assistance programs in Syria have been curtailed following the Trump Administration’s 2025 review of U.S. foreign assistance activi ties and implementation of agency reorganization plans and staff relocations. According to lead inspector general reporting to Congress, as of June 30, all USAID stabilization programming in Syria had been terminated.83 82 The report accompanying the House -passed version of the act (H.Rept. 119 -231) directed the Administration to provide a briefing to the House Committee on Armed Services “not later than February 15, 2026, on the progress, challenges, and outlook for potential U.S. defense partnership with the new Syrian government. ” Directive report language is not legally binding, but agenc ies generally have regarded it as a congressional mandate and responded accordingly. 83 LIG-OIR, Report to the U.S. Congress, July 1–December 31, 2025, pp. 3 3-37. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 22 Some State Department stabilization programs were continued , but may end to the extent that they have focused on support to local authorities in northeastern Syria that are implementing integration agreements with the national government.84 USAID humanitarian assistance activit ies were paused in early 2025. Some were restarted under State Department management and others were terminated.85 The Trump Administration has provided congressional committees of jurisdiction with updated lists of assistance programs in Syria that it has terminated and preserved. The Trump Administration’s FY2026 budget request for foreign assistance did not include a specific amount for Syria programs, but, consistent with the prior Administration’s requests, sought authority notwithstanding other provisions of law to provide “non -lethal stabilization assistance for Syria, including for emergency medical and rescue response and chemical weapons investigations.”86 The National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2026 (Division F of P.L. 119 -75) includes this language, and makes funds available for aid to ethnic and religious minorities in Syria. Entry and Presence of Syrians in the United States In December, President Trump announced his dec ision “to fully restrict and limit the entry of nationals ” of Syria, including immigrants