A state party may also request that a special meeting of other treaty members address the comp liance matters. States p arties can initiate fact -finding missions and request relevant governments to address compliance issues. Convention on Cluster Munitions178 Cluster munitio ns are weapons that open in mid air and dispense smaller submunitions — anywhere from a few dozen to hundreds —into an area. They can be delivered by aircraft or from ground systems such as artillery, rockets, and missiles. Cluster munitions are valued militarily because one munition can kill or destroy many targets within its impact area, and fewer weapons systems are needed to deliver fewer munitions to attack multiple targets. They also permit a smaller force to engage a larger adversary and are considered by some an “economy of force” weapon. On the other hand, critics note that cluster munitions disperse their large numbers of submunitions imprecisely over an extended area, that they frequently fail to detonate and are difficult to detect, and that the submunitions can remain explosive hazards for decades. They can 175 Ibid. 176 The full text of the convention is available at Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stock piling, Production and Transfer of Anti -Personnel Mines and on their Destruction , United Nations Treaties Database, https://treaties.un.org/ . 177 Committee on Article 5 Implementation , Preliminary Observations , Intersessional Meetings, June 20 -22, 2022. 178 For detailed information, see CRS Report RS22907, Cluster Munitions: Background and Issues for Congress , by Andrew Feickert and Paul K. Kerr . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 38 also produce high civilian casualties if they are fi red into areas where soldiers and civilians are intermixed or if inaccurate cluster munitions land in populated areas. A number of CCW members, led by Norway, initiated negotiations in 2007 outside of the CCW to ban cluster munitions.179 On May 30, 2008, th ey reached an agreement to ban cluster munitions.180 The United States, Russia, China, Israel, Egypt, India, and Pakistan did not participate in the talks or sign the agreement. During the Signing Conference in Oslo on December 3 -4, 2008, 94 states signed t he convention and four of the signatories ratified the convention at the same time.181 China, Russia, and the United States abstained, but France, Germany, and the United Kingdom were among the 18 NATO members to sign the convention.182 The convention entered into force on August 1, 2010 , and had 128 parties as of June 2025 . The Convention on Cluster Munitions, inter alia, bans the use of cluster munitions, as well as their development, production, acquisition, transfer, and stockpiling.183 The convention does not prohibit cluster munitions that can detect and engage a single target or explosive submunitions equipped with an electronic self -destruction or self -deactivating feature184—an exemption that seemingly permits sensor -fuzed or “smart” cl uster submunitions. Export Controls Zangger Committee In 1971, a group of seven NPT nuclear supplier nations formed the Nuclear