and Soviet/Russian shorter - and intermediate -range ground -launched ballistic and cruise missiles and launchers. 100-11 Treaty lapsed in 2019 following U.S. withdrawal amid allegations of Russian noncompliance The Treaty on Open Skies Open Skies Treaty 2002 Unlimited duration R (1993) Provides for multilateral unarmed overflights to observe and image military activities among a number of Euro -Atlantic states. 102-37 The United States withdrew from the treaty in 2020 Treaty Between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Limitation of Anti - Ballistic Missile Systems Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty or ABM Treaty 1972 Unlimited duration R (1972) Provides for limits on U.S. and Soviet/Russian anti-ballistic missile systems. 92-24 The United States withdrew from the treaty in 2002 CRS -74 Full Name Short Name or Acronym Year of Entry into Force and Durationa United States Status Signed (S) or Ratified (R) Summary of Provisions Senate Treaty Document Reference Current Status Treaty between th e United States of America and the Russian Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms New START Treaty 2011 10 years with possibility of a one - time five -year extension (in effect until 2026) R (2010) Provide s for verifiable bilateral reductions of U.S. and Russian strategic nuclear warheads and strategic nuclear delivery vehicles. 111-5 Treaty expired on February 5, 2026 Source s: CRS Report RL33865, Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements , coordinated by Mary Beth D. Nikitin ; congress.gov; United Nations disarmament treaty database, https://treaties.unoda.org . a. If treaty duration is unspecified in the treaty text, it is considered to be in effect unless terminated. Some treaties speci fy “unlimited duration” in their text, which is noted as such in this colu mn. b. For details on U.S. adherence to CCW Protocols, see UN disarmament treaty database. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 75 Appendix B. The U.S. Treaty Ratification Process Article II, Section 2, Clause 2 of the U.S. Constitution establishes responsibilities for treaty ratification. It provides that the President “shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, to make Treaties, provided two thirds of the Senators present concur.” Contrary to commo n perceptions, the Senate does not ratify treaties; it provides its advice and consent to ratification by passing a resolution of ratification. The President then “ratifies” a treaty by signing the instrument of ratification and either exchanging it with t he other parties to the treaty or depositing it at a central repository (such as the United Nations). In Section 33 of the Arms Control and Disarmament Act (P.L. 87 -297, as amended), Congress outlined the relationship between arms control agreements and th e treaty ratification process. This law provides that “no action shall be taken under this or any other law that will obligate the United States to disarm or to reduce or to limit the Armed Forces or armaments of the United