The Adaptation Agreement The 1996 CFE Review Conference opened negotiations to modify the treaty to account for the absence of the USSR and the Warsaw Pact, and the expansion of NATO into the Czech Republic, Poland, and Hungary. Most CFE signatories did not want to completely renegotiate the treaty. Russia, however, sought broader revisions, and, ironically, it sought to maintain the alliance -wide equipm ent ceilings. An alliance -wide cap on NATO would presumably force adjustments of national holdings as the NATO alliance expanded; such adjustments probably would not favor new member nations close to Russia’s borders. The CFE parties did not adopt Russia’s position , and Russia ultimately agreed to a largely NATO -drafted document. This agreement called for, among other things, lower equipment levels throughout the “Atlantic to the Urals” area; enhanced verification procedures; and the replacement of NATO -Warsaw Pact “bloc to bloc” ceilings with national limits on all categories of TLE s. It also stated that the Flank Agreement was to remain in effect. The Adaptation Agreement reiterates that NATO has “no plan, no intention, and no reason” to deploy nuclear wea pons on new members’ territory , and seeks to improve new members’ defensive capabilities through interoperability and capability for reinforcement, rather than by stationing additional combat forces on new members’ territory. Russia’s most serious focus ha s been, however, on NATO enlargement and how CFE could adapt to mitigate what many Russians see as an encroaching threat. Russia has called for the new members of NATO, particularly the Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia, to become CFE state p arties. These countries have indicated a willingness to join ; however , they cannot do so until the Adaptation Agreement is ratified and the new CFE regime comes into force. At the Istanbul Summit in 1999, where the Adaptation Agreement was concluded, Russi a undertook the so -called Istanbul Commitments to remove its troops from both the Republic of Georgia and the “breakaway” province of Transdniestr ia in Moldova.199 Though not part of the 199 For more information concerning the Georgian and Moldovan negotiations with Russia over its troop deployments in their countries, see CRS Report RS21981, Moldova: Background and U.S. Policy, by Steven Woehrel (continued...) Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 45 CFE Adaptation Agree ment document, NATO members considered Russian fulfillment of these commitments a prerequisite for the ratification of the Agreement. Consequently, of the CFE signatories only Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, and Kazakhstan ratified the adapted treaty. Compliance Concerns In past complianc e reports, the State Department asserted that Russian equipment holdings “continue to exceed most of the legally binding limits for both the original and revised flank zones.”200 It also cite d Russia for relatively minor reporting violations and for its fai lure to complete withdrawals of its troops from Georgia and Moldova. It also cite d Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, and Ukraine for non compliance.201 Armenia and A zerbaijan, engaged in a conflict over