with the freedom to mix their forces as they see fit. This change reflects, in part, a lesser concern with Cold War models of strategic and crisis stabi lity. It also derives from the U.S. desire to maintain flexibility in determining the structure of its own nuclear forces. Second, under START, to calculate the number of warheads that counted against the treaty limits, the United States and Russia counte d deployed launchers, assumed launcher contained an operational missile, and assumed each missile carried an “attributed” number of warheads. The number of warheads attributed to each missile or bomber was the same for all missiles and bombers of that type . The parties then multiplied these warhead numbers by the number of deployed ballistic missiles and heavy bombers to determine the number of warheads that counted under the treaty’s limits. Under New START, the United States and Russia will also count the number of deployed launchers. But they will not calculate the number of deployed warheads by multiplying the number of launchers by a warhead attribution number. Instead, each side will simply declare the total number of warheads deployed across their for ce. This counting method will provide the United States with the flexibility to reduce its forces without eliminating launchers and to structure its deployed forces to meet evolving operational needs. Monitoring and Verification The New START Treaty contai ns a monitoring and verification regime that resembles the regime in START, in that its text contains detailed definitions of items limited by the treaty; provisions governing the use of NTM to gather data on each side’s forces and activities; an extensive database that identifies the numbers, types, and locations of items limited by the treaty; provisions requiring notifications about items limited by the treaty; and inspections allowing the parties to confirm information shared during data exchanges. At t he same time, the verification regime has been streamlined to make it less costly and complex than the regime in START. It also has been adjusted to reflect the limits in New START and the current circumstances in the relationship between the United States in Russia. In particular, it focuses on maintaining transparency, cooperation, and openness, as well as on deterring and detecting potential violations. Under New START, the United States and Russia continue to rely on their NTM to collect information abo ut the numbers and locations of their strategic forces. They may also broadcast and exchange telemetry —the data generated during missile flight tests —up to five times each year. They do not need these data to monitor compliance with any particular limits i n New START, but the telemetry exchange will provide some transparency into the capabilities of their systems.219 The parties will also exchange a vast amount of data about those forces, specifying not only their distinguishing characteristics, but also the ir precise locations and the number of warheads deployed on each deployed delivery vehicle. They will notify each other, and update the database, whenever they move forces