Administration. Through January 2026, the United States maintained a military presence in southern and northeastern Syria tasked with conducting operations against terrorist groups and supporting local partner forces in ensuring the enduring defeat of the Islamic State organization. This inc luded the provision of support to partner forces that were conducting counter -IS operations, detain ing thousands of IS fighters , and secur ing camps housing tens of thousands of individuals from formerly IS -controlled areas. Following the Syrian government’ s reassertion of Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 32 security control in eastern Syria in January 2026 and the transfer of IS prisoners to Iraq , the transitional government and its security forces are assuming responsibility for remaining counterterrorism functions, and unnamed U.S. official s have indicated that U.S. forces are preparing to withdraw. Congress has provided authority and funding to the Department of Defense on an annual basis for related U.S. operations and assistance , and changes to U.S. posture and operations or the extensio n of new U.S. security assistance to transitional government security forces may prompt new legislative reconsideration, oversight, and debate . The FY202 6 National Defense Authorization Act and FY2026 Defense Appropriations Act extend ed through December 20 26 authorities for U.S. train and equip programs in Syria and provided funding available through September 2027 .134 In considering Administration initiatives in 2026, Congress may act independently of the Administration’s requests, and congressional conside ration of defense appropriations and authorizations for FY202 7 may feature proposals for substantial revisions of U.S. policies and programs. Possible questions Members may consider for oversight and legislative purposes include the following: • What is the current nature of Syria -based terrorist threats? To what extent do groups active in Syria threaten the United States directly or indirectly? To what extent are U.S. interests and partners threatened? • How capable is the Syrian government of independently c ombatting terrorist threats in Syria? On what timeline and with what assistance might the transitional government be more capable of providing security for Syria independently? What role are foreign terrorist fighters or other extremists playing in Syria’s new security forces? What are the prospects for demobilization and disarmament of armed groups in Syria? What would such efforts entail? • How might changes to the posture, presence, and operations of the U.S. military in Syria affect U.S. interests ? Should Congress act to support or limit Administration actions to change the U.S. military presence or operations in Syria? Can U.S. operations from Turkey, Iraq, or Jordan adequately secure U.S. interests and how sustainable might the presence of U.S. fo rces in those countries be? • How long and at what cost should the United States be prepared to combat terrorist threats in Syria? What contributions are others making to these efforts? • How might the success or failure of the integration of former U.S. part ner forces with Syrian government forces affect U.S. interests? Should the United States ensure the implementation of