Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 53 The Soviets agreed to destroy approximately 1 ,750 missiles and the United States agreed to destroy 846 missiles, establishing a principle that asymmetrical reductions were acceptable in order to achieve a goal of greater stability. On the U.S. side, the principal systems destroyed were the Pershing II b allistic missile and the ground -launched cruise missile (GLCM), both single - warhead systems. On the Soviet side, the principal system was the SS -20 ballistic missile, which carried three warheads. These systems, on both sides, were highly mobile and able to strike such high-value targets as command -and-control centers, staging areas, airfields, depots, and ports. The Soviets also agreed to destroy a range of older nuclear missiles, as wel l as the mobile, short - range SS -23, a system developed and deployed in the early 1980s. The parties had eliminated all their weapons by May 1991. The verification regime of the INF Treaty permitted on -site inspections of selected missile assembly facilitie s and all storage centers, deployment zones, and repair, test, and elimination facilities. Although it did not permit “anywhere, anytime” inspections, it did allow up to 20 short - notice inspecti ons of sites designated in the t reaty. The two sides agreed to an extensive data exchange, intended to account for all systems covered by the agreement. The Treaty also established a continuous portal monitoring procedure at one assembly facility in each country. Inspections under the INF Treaty continued until May 2 001. However, the United States continue d to operate its site at Russia’s V otkinsk Missile Assembly facility until the end of 2009 under the terms of the 1991 START Treaty. The INF Treaty returned to the news in 2007. Russia, partly in response to U.S. pla ns to deploy a missile defense radar in the Czech Republic and interceptor missiles in Poland, stated that it might withdraw from the INF Treaty. Some Russian officials claimed this would allow Russia to deploy missiles with the range needed to threaten th e missile defense system, in case it were capable of threatening Russia’s strategic nuclear forces. Analysts outside Russia also noted that Russia might be responding to concerns about the growing capabilities of China’s missiles, or of those in other coun tries surrounding Russia. During the Obama Administration, the United States grew concerned about Russia’s testing and development of a new ground -launched cruise missile of INF range. In 2014, the United States began to express these concerns in the Stat e Department’s annual report on Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control, Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Agreements and Commitments . This report s tated that the United States determined that “the Russian Federation is in violation of its obligations under the [1987 Intermediate -range Nuclear Forces] INF Treaty not to possess, produce, or flight -test a ground -launched cruise missile (GLCM) with a range capability of 500 km to 5,500 km, or