enrichment and reprocessing technology, and required the provision of physical security for transferred nuclear facilities and materials, acceptance of safeguar ds on replicated facilities (based on a design transferred from a London Club member - state), and prohibitions against retransfer of nuclear exports to third parties. Concerned about Iraq’s successful procurement of dual -use items and apparently inconsiste nt enforcement of nuclear export controls in several supplier countries, the NSG convened in March 1991 for the first time since 1978 to update its list of controlled commodities. The expanded group agreed on new guidelines in January 1992 for transfers of a wider range of nuclear -related, dual-use equipment, material and technology and jointly adopted the long-standing U.S. policy of requiring full -scope safeguards for all nuclear exports. (Nations purchasing nuclear technology must open all nuclear facili ties to inspection, not just the facility in which an imported item is used.187) NSG members voluntarily agree to coordinate exports of civilian nuclear material and nuclear - related equipment and technology. The NSG agreed to guidelines for export that incl ude lists of materials and equipment that are to be subject to export control. NSG guidelines require that the recipient country offer assurances that the importing items will not be used for a weapons program, will have proper physical security, and will not be transferred to a third party without the permission of the exporter. Recipient countries’ nuclear programs must also have comprehensive IAEA safeguards agreements. In September 2008, the NSG agreed to exempt India from this safeguards requirement, a lthough the group retained a policy of restraint on the transfer of enrichment and reprocessing equipment. NSG members in June 2011 adopted additional guidelines that define eligibility criteria for the transfer of enrichment and reprocessing technologies to new states. Guidelines for nuclear transfers and control lists are updated periodically at NSG plenary meetings and referred to the IAEA for publication.188 Australia Group (AG) The Australia Group (AG) is made up of 42 countries and the European Union t o coordinate controls on chemical and biological weapons -related transfers. In 1984, United Nations investigators officially confirmed that chemical weapons had been used in the Iran -Iraq War. In response, the United States and several other countries bega n to implement export controls on chemicals that could be used to manufacture chemical weapons. In 1985, Australia proposed that concerned countries meet in order to coordinate their export controls and share information to enhance their effectiveness. The first meeting took place in June 1985, and biennial meetings continue at the Australian embassy in Paris. The Australia Group has established a list of chemicals and equipment that are subject to control. In 1990, in response to growing concerns over the proliferation of covert biological weapons programs, certain biological agents and research/production equipment were added to the control list. Australia Group guidelines do not call for prohibiting the export of control list items, but 186 See http://www.nuclearsuppliersgroup.org for NSG website. 187 The new guidelines appeared as an International