from the GERD on an annual basis, particularly during prolonged droughts. Reportedly, in order to pressure Ethiopia, Egypt may be militarily supporting the Fano, an Ethiopian rebel movement.19 17 Sherif Tarek, “Egypt Pushes Against Gaza Displacement Call with Rebuilding Plan,” Bloomberg , February 5, 2025. 18 “Gaza’s Rafah crossing opens after 2 -day closure as Palestinians claim delays and mistreatment ,” Associated Press, February 8, 2 026. 19 “The promise and peril of Ethiopia’s new mega -dam, ” The Economist , September 9, 2025. Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 7 Since the conflict in Sudan began in 2023, Egypt has diplomatically and militarily20 supported the Sudan Armed Forces (SAF, the military) in its battle against the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which has been backed militarily by one of Egypt’s main benef actors, the UAE.21 Egypt also is a member of the “Quad,” a U.S. -led multilateral mediation effort to end the conflict also consisting of Saudi Arabia and the UAE . As the war in Sudan has led to the world ’s largest humanitarian crisis, the United Nations estimates that over 3 million Sudanese have fled to Egypt with 1 million Sudanese hav ing registered as refugees in Egypt with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Sudan’s influence over the Nile River’s flow into Egypt makes it vital to Egyptian security. In January 2026, President Trump wrote a letter to President Sisi, saying , as quoted in press accounts, that “ I am ready to restart U.S. mediation between Egypt and Ethiopia to responsi bly resolve the question of ‘The Nile Water Sharing ’ once and for all .”22 During the first Trump Administration, a U.S.-led mediation effort stalled in 2020 after Ethiopia rejected a draft agreement put forth by then - Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and a ccused the United States of bias toward Egypt. Democracy, Human Rights, and Religious Freedom U.S. officials and some Members of Congress have frequently criticized Egypt’s record on human rights and democratization. The Egyptian government rejects foreign criticism of its human rights practices as illegitimate interference in Egypt’s domestic affairs.23 It also claims that it is taking tangible steps to improve its human rights record and broaden political participation by launching a national human rights strategy,24 forming a Presidential Pardon Commission to release political prisoners,25 and launching a National Dialogue to allow some open discussion of political issues by a range of various actors26 (excluding the Muslim Brotherhood which the Egyptian 20 Declan Walsh , Malachy Browne , Eric Schmitt, and Nick Cumming -Bruce , “The Secret Egyptian Air Base Behind Sudan’s Drone Wa r,” New York Times , February 1, 2026. 21 CRS In Focus IF12816, The War and Humanitarian Crisis in Sudan , by Lauren Ploch Blanchard . 22 “Trump offers to mediate Egypt -Ethiopia dispute on Nile River waters,” Reuters, January 16, 2026. 23 “Egypt calls on US not to interfere in its affairs,” The Middle East Monitor , March 15, 2019. 24 Government