the HTS -backed Syrian Salvation Government that ruled rebel -held areas of northwest Syria . In conjunction with Sharaa’s selection as president, the authorities also rescinded Syria’s 2012 constitution and dissolved the former ruling Baath Party, the Asad -era legislature, and the former regime’s military and security forces. As of February 2026, the UN Panel of Experts on Al Qaeda and the Islamic State reported that a number of member states assessed that HTS “remained in transition and was being absorbed into the new Syrian military and governance structures.”7 After a series of governorate -level consultations and a National Dialogue conference in Damascus, interim authorities appointed members of a committee that drafted a five-year transitional constitution al declaration . In March 2025, President Sharaa signed the transitional constitutional declaration and named a new transitional cabinet (Table 1), expand ing the government’s leadership to includ e members of some minority groups. The transitional constitution declaration recognizes individual rights, including freedom of belief and expression, and states a commitment to preserving the country’s territorial integrity, diversity, and social peace. The declaration vests most powers with the interim presidency and states that Arabic is the 6 UN Document S/PV.10094 , UN Security Council meeting , January 22 , 202 6. 7 UN Document S/2026/44, Thirty -sevent h report of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team submitted pursuant to resolution 2734 (2024) , February 4, 2026. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 6 official language of the state and that Islamic law is the principal source of legislation .8 The Kurdish -led administration of northeastern Syria did not participate in the national dialogue and constitutional declaration drafting process and called for its reconsideration and a decentralized alternative. T able 1. Syria: Selected Interim Authorities As of February 12, 2026 President of the Syrian Arab Republic/Commander -in-Chief Ahmed Al Sharaa Minister of Foreign Affairs Asaad Al Shaibani Minister of Defense Maj. Gen. Marhaf Abu Qasra Minister of Interior Anas Al Khattab Minister of Finance Mohammad Yusr Barniya Minister of Economy Mohammad Nidal Al Shaar Minister of Justice Mazhar Al Weiss Minister of Energy Mohammed Al Bashir Minister of Public Works and Housing Mustafa Abdulrazak Minister of Transport Yarob Badr Minister of Agriculture Amjad Badr Minister of Health Musaab Nazal Al Ali Minister of Social Affairs and Labor Hind Qabawat Chief of the General Staff of the Army and Armed Forces Ali Noureddine Al Nasan Governor of the Central Bank of Syria Abdulqader Husrieh Chargé d’Affaires, A.I. Syrian Embassy to the United States Mohammad Qanatari Source: CRS, compiled from Syrian and international media reports. Subject to change. Note: According to a July 2025 UN report, “At least 9 out of 23 ministers are directly or indirectly linked to HTS, 4 of whom held military roles within the group.” See UN Document S/2025/482, July 24, 2025. In July 2025, then -UN Special Envoy for Syria Geir Pe dersen told the UN Security Council that the political transition was “not yet fully inclusive” and he