St. Petersburg. The GCINT website says that its activities have been suspended : “The GICNT is pausing all official meetings of the GICNT and its working groups until further notice. The GICNT wel comes the voluntary commitments of its partner countries in agreeing to host and organize future activities and fully supports their important role in advancing the GICNT ’s mission. ”116 At the GICNT’s first meeting in October 2006, 13 states —Australia, Cana da, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Morocco, Turkey, the United Kingdom , the United States, and Russia —endorsed a Statement of Principles. As of February 2021, 89 states and six international organizations had agreed to the principles an d were Global Initiative partner countries .117 The Internatio nal Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), European Union (EU) , Interpol, UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), United Nations Office of Counter -Terrorism (UNOCT), and the United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute (UNICRI) have observer status. U.S. officials described the initiative as a “flexible framework” to prevent, detect, and respond to the threat of nuclear terrorism.118 It is meant to enhance information sharing and build capa city worldwide. The Statement of Principles pledges to improve each nation’s ability to secure radioactive and nuclear material, prevent illicit trafficking by improving detection of such material, respond to a terrorist attack, prevent safe haven to poten tial nuclear terrorists and financial resources, and ensure liability for acts of nuclear terrorism. Participating states share a common goal to improve national capabilities to combat nuclear terrorism by sharing best practices through multinational exerc ises and expert -level meetings. Without dues or a secretariat, actions under the initiative take legal guidance from the International Convention on the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material s, and UN Security Council Resolutions 1540 and 1373.119 Previously, GICNT participants convened a plenary session every two years to evaluate progress and set future goals and priorities. 116 Global In itiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism website, https://gicnt.org/ en. 117 According to the archived State Department website about the Initiative, accessed on June 16, 2025, https://2017 - 2021.state.gov/ the-global -initiative -to-combat -nuclear -terrorism/ . 118 Robert G. Joseph, Remarks to the Capitol Hill Club, “The Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism: A Comprehensive Appr oach to Today’s Most Serious National Security Threat,” archive State Department website, July 18, 2006, https://2001 -2009.state.gov/ t/us/rm/69124.htm . 119 “U.S. -Russia Joint Fact Sheet on The Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism,” July 15, 2006 , http://www.state.gov/ r/pa/prs/ps/2006/ 69016.htm . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 25 Weapons Control and Elimination Conventions Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) The Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) bans the development, production, transfer, stockpiling, and use of chemical and toxin weapons ; mandates the destruction of all chemical weapons production facilities ; and seeks to control the producti on and international transfer of the key chemical components of these weapons. Negotiations on such a convention