2025. 33 U.S. Central Command, “CENTCOM Forces Remove ISIS Operatives in Syria After Large -Scale Strike,” December 30, 2025. Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service 11 including violations by government units or government -aligned actors. Others have noted attacks on government forces and civilians perpetrated by some minority community armed groups as contributing to cycles of violence. Complicating m atters further, some members of Syria’s Alawite, Kurdish, and Druze communities have called for decentralized rule and the preservation of local security forces in the wake of intercommunal violence. Some Druze have called for foreign intervention, includi ng by Israel, to ensure their protection, and some Kurdish groups appealed to U.S . officials and Kurdish counterparts outside of Syria in the midst of SDF - government fighting in December 2025 and January 2026. Other members of these communities have reject ed outside involvement and separatist rhetoric, while condemning government violations and failures. The Syrian transitional government has acknowledged shortcomings and pledged to protect all Syrians while implementing agreements reached with minority communities since March 2025. Violence in Coastal Governorates In March and April 2025 , attacks by pro -Asad groups prompted a response by security forces that devolved into attacks on some Alawite communities by some state units, government -aligned groups , and vigilantes . A UN report issued in August 2025 detail ed eyewitness accounts of house - to-house killings, beatings, and lootings targeting Alawi tes, including the abuse and summary execution of Alawi te men by individuals wearing military clothing without in signia.34 The report concluded that parallel hostilities were occurring between the interim government and pro -Asad armed groups at the time , and found that there are reasonable grounds to believe that individual members of certain factions of the securit y forces of the interim government ... as well as private individuals participating in hostilities engaged in acts that amounted to violations and international humanitarian law, including acts that may amount to war crimes, as well as serious violations of international human rights law . The report acknowledge d measures by the interim government during and since the violence to prevent further violations and “found no evidence of a governmental policy or plan to carry out such attacks.” President Sharaa personally condemned the violence and vowed to hold those responsible accountable. In the wake of the violence in western coastal areas , the government said it would redoubl e its efforts to assert unified security command over armed groups and launched a fact-finding investigation that has delivered its report to the authorities .35 The UN report state d that, when interviewed, residents of the coastal provinces were not aware of any actions by interim authorities to criminally investigat e any individual incidents that took place during the violence . Authorities since have undertaken investigations and pursued court proceedings f or individuals suspected of involvement in the violence, including some security force personnel. In November 2025, a court 34 Independent International Commission of Inquiry on the