Kerr . 245 See The Export -Import Bank Reauthorization Act of 20 02, P.L. 107 -189. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 82 opposition to loans or credits from international financial institutions. These sanctions were imposed on India and Pakistan following their nuclear tests in May 1998 but were gradually relaxed. Legislation passed in the 106th Congress extended the President’s authority to relax sanctions on India and Pakistan for a year, and the Senate passed a bill suspending sanctions on the two countries for five years. The FY2000 Department of Defense appropriations bill ( P.L. 106-79) extended the authority to suspend sanctions. Following the September 11 terrorist attacks, President Bush lifted all remaining sanctions on India and Pakistan in response to suppo rt of U.S. operations in Afghanistan. The NPPA defined for the first time in U.S. law the term “nuclear explosive device.” It defined “terrorism” as used in the AECA to include activities that assist groups or individuals to acquire any nuclear explosive d evice. It included a sense of Congress that identified 24 measures to strengthen IAEA safeguards, some of which have been implemented. Relevant sections include Section 821 (22 U.S.C. 3201 note), which requires U.S. government procurement sanctions; Sectio n 823 (22 U.S.C. 3201 note), which requires U.S. executive directors of international financial institutions to vote against finance that might promote nuclear proliferation; and Section 824 (22 U.S.C. 3201 note), which takes aim at financial institutions and persons involved with financial institutions from assisting nuclear proliferation through the provision of financing. Nunn-Lugar/Cooperative Threat Reduction Program Legislation In late 1991, Congress passed the Soviet Nuclear Threat Reduction Act (wh ich became known as the Nunn -Lugar Amendment), establishing programs to assist with the safe and secure storage and dismantlement of nuclear weapons in Russia and the Newly Independent States (NIS). These programs initially focused on the “loose nukes” pro blem but have broadened their focus to address a variety of proliferation risks associated with weak political control over nuclear materials, equipment, and expertise, as well as CW, BW, and missiles. This effort has expanded to include the CTR program in DOD and nonproliferation programs in DOE and the State Department.246 The FY2008 defense authorization bill expanded the program to countries outside the former Soviet Union and eliminated the annual certification requirements for the CTR program.247 Iran-Iraq Arms Nonproliferation Act of 1992 Section 1602 of the Defense Authorization for FY1993 (Title XVI, P.L. 102 -484, as amended) extended existing sanctions on Iraq to Iran . The law states that it is the policy of the United States to oppose any transfer to Iran or Iraq that could contribute to either country’s ability to acquire nuclear, chemical, biological, or advanced conventional weapons. Section 1604 requires the Presi dent to impose sanctions against any person whom he has determined to be engaged in such transfers. Section 1605 similarly addresses activities of foreign governments. The 104th Congress amended the law (by passage of S ection