An Interview With Assistant Secretary of State Mallory Stewart, ” Arms Control Today , May 2024, https://www.armscontrol.org/ act/2024 -05/interviews/ engaging -china -and-russia -arms - control -interview -assistant -secretary -state. Also see U.S. Department of State , 2023 Report to Congress on Implementation of the New START Treaty , December 2023. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 67 Russian Suspension and U.S. Countermeasures On February 21, 2023, President Putin announced that Russia was “suspending participation” in the New START Treaty and outlined grievances against the United States and NATO.224 Putin characterized the Treaty as having been concluded at a different time in history, and he said that Russia would not participate while the United States worked toward Russia’s “strategic defeat.” The Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated that Russi a would observe Treaty limits and would not withdraw from the Treaty, but would also not participate in on -site inspections, data notifications, or consultative meetings.225 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also stated that Russia “will continue to strictly comply with the quantitative restrictions stipulated in the Treaty for strategic offensive arms within the life cycle of the Treaty,” and “continue to exchange notifications of ICBM and SLBM launches with the United States in accordance with the relevant Soviet -U.S. agreement signed in 1988.”226 In an interview, President Biden called Russia’s suspension of its participation in New START a “big mistake” and said there was “no evidence” of any change to Russia’s nuclear posture.227 On March 15, 2023, the Stat e Department called the announcement “legally invalid,” since the New START Treaty does not have a provision for suspension.228 The State Department also said that Russia “has stopped providing its treaty -mandated notifications,” including on “the status an d movement of its accountable nuclear forces.” The State Department said on March 28 that it had offered to continue mutual data exchange under the Treaty but that Russia had refused. In light of this, the United States announced it “ will likewise not prov ide its biannual data update to Russia.”229 The State Department has indicated, however, that, like Russia, the United States will “provide notification of ICBM and SLBM launches in accordance with the 1988 Ballistic Missile Launch Notification Agreement an d to provide notifications of exercises in accordance with the 1989 Agreement on Reciprocal Advance Notification of Major Strategic Exercises. ”230 Russian Proposal to Extend Central Limits In September 2025, Putin stated that Russia was prepared to uphold t he treaty ’s central limits for one year following its expiration , and that the Russian proposal would be “only feasible if the United States acts in a similar spirit and refrains from steps that would undermine or disrupt the existing balance of deterrence. ”231 On January 8, President Trump reportedly said of the agreement, “If it expires, it expires. ”232 New START expired on February 5, 2026. In February 224 President of Russia, “Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly,” February 21, 2023 . 225