their June 2021 meeting in Geneva, President Biden and Russia’s President Vladimir Putin agreed that the United States and Russia would engage in “an integrated bilateral Strategic Stability Dialogue” that would “seek to lay the groundwork for future arms control and risk reduction measures.” The United States and Russia held two rounds of talks in July and September 2021. They did not schedule any more talks in this forum after Russia began its invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Russia announced in February 2023 that it would suspend its participation in the New START Treaty. The Biden Admini stration’s 2022 Nuclear Posture Review stated that “arms control, risk reduction, and nuclear non -proliferation” are “mutually reinforcing tools for preserving stability, deterring aggression and escalation, and avoiding arms racing and nuclear war.”13 The review, and Biden Administration’s approaches, have focused on bilateral and multilateral risk reduction. For example, the Biden Administration approached China with a proposal to begin a dialogue on strategic stability in late 2021. In the absence of int erest from Russia and China, the Biden Administration has pursued engagement with these and other nuclear weapons powers in the P5 Process. It has sought to engage broadly with the international community on the responsible military use of artificial intel ligence (AI) and space security. Moreover, the Biden Administration has also indicated that it would be willing to rejoin the agreement with Iran, if Iran resumed compliance with its obligations. In the meantime, North Korea has continued to advance its nuclear weapons and missile programs and has not agreed to resume dialogue over its nuclear program despite offers by the United States.14 The second Trump Administration has said it is pursuing a “peace through strength” policy in national security and foreign affairs. The National Defense Strategy emphasizes the importance of modernizing the U.S. nuclear deterrent in response to increased nuclear threats.15 One major initiative is the January 2025 executive order in support of developing a “next -generat ion missile defense shield,” also called “Golden Dome for America.”16 This may have implications for nuclear weapons strategy or future arms control talks with Russia and China.17 The Administration has pursued negotiations with Iran over its nuclear prog ram. In June 2025, the United States conducted military strikes on Iranian nuclear sites and then called for a return to talks.18 The United States participated in bringing about a cessation of military hostilities between nuclear -armed neighbors India and Pakistan in May 2025.19 Additionally, the United States has urged the disposition of remaining chemical and nuclear weapons related sites in Syria following 13 U.S. Department of Defense, Nuclear Posture Review , 2022, p. 16. 14 U.S. Congress, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, Nominations, The Honorable Kurt Campbell to be Deputy Secretary of State, 118th Cong., 1st sess., December 7, 2023. 15 Department of Defense, National Defense Strategy , January 23, 2026, p. 17. 16 It was originally called “The Iron Dome f or America,” Executive Order 14186, January 27, 2025, https://www.federalregister.gov/ documents/ 2025/ 02/03/2025