. Between July 2021 and January 2022, U.S. and Russian delegations met three times in the framework of the Strategic Stability Dialogue. In early September 2021, Bonnie Jenkins, the then-U.S. Under Secretary of State for International Security and Arms Control, noted that the United States would seek to capture new kinds of intercontinental -range nuclear delivery systems and nonstrategic nuclear weapons in the upcoming talks.23 Russia appear ed to favor a broader agenda; Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov noted that the discussions should include everything that “influences strategic stability,” including “nuclear and non -nuclear weapons, offensive and 20 See CRS Insight IN12480, Current Issues for Syria’s Chemical Weapons and Nuclear Weapons Programs , by Paul K. Kerr and Mary Beth D. Nikitin . 21 Congressional Budget Justification, Department of State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs, Fiscal Year 2026, https://www.state.gov/ wp-content/ uploads/ 2025/ 05/FY-2026 -State -CBJ-.pdf 22 White House, “Readout of President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Call with President Vladimir Putin of Russia,” April 13, 2021. 23 U.S. Department of State, “ Under Secretary Bonnie Jenkins’ Remarks: Nuclear Arms Control: A New Era? ,” September 6, 2021 . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 8 defensive weapons.”24 For Russia, this list include d ballistic missile defense, long -range strategic conventional arms, and weapons in space. In early 2022, as part of an effort to prevent Russia’s renewed invasion of Ukraine, the Biden Administration expressed a willingness to address mutual security and strategic stability concerns with Russia .25 At a January 2022 meeting of the U.S. -Russia Strategic Stability Dialogue, the two countries discussed possible agreements on “the future of certain missile systems in Europe,” reducing the risk of dangerous air and sea incidents, and setting “reciprocal limits on the size and scope of milita ry exercises.”26 A follow -on U.S. proposal, in coordination with NATO, addressed “measures to increase confidence regarding military exercises and maneuvers in Europe, ... arms control related to missiles in Europe, ... and ways to increase transparency an d stability.”27 High - level U.S. officials have communicated with Russian counterparts regarding nuclear issues, according to press reports, but no broader strategic stability dialogue has taken place since January 2022.28 On February 21, 2023, President Putin announced that Russia was “suspending participation” in the New START Treaty.29 The Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated that Russia would observe treaty limits and would not withdraw from the treaty, but would also not participate in on-site inspections, data notifications, or consultative meetings.30 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also stated that Russia “will continue to strictly comply with the quantitative restrictions stipulated in the Treaty for strategic offensive arms within the life cycle of the Treaty,” and “continue to exchange notifications of ICBM and SLBM launches with the United States in accordance with the relevant Soviet -U.S. agreement signed in 1988.”31 On March 15, 2023, the State Department called the announcement “legally invalid,” since the New START Treaty does not have a provision for suspension.32