king, which was ultimately codified in United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSCR) 2803 (adopted November 17, 2025). UNSCR 2803 states the following regarding the ISF: The ISF shall work with Israel and Egypt, without prejudice to their existing agreements, along with the newly trained and vetted Palestinian police force, to help secure border areas; stabilize the security environment in Gaza by ensuring the process of d emilitarizing the Gaza Strip, including the destruction and prevention of rebuilding of the military, terror, and offensive infrastructure, as well as the permanent decommissioning of weapons from non-state armed groups; protect civilians, including humani tarian operations; train and provide support to the vetted Palestinian police forces; coordinate with relevant States to 8 “Netanyahu, Egyptian intel chief meeting transforms dialogue into strategic cooperation, expert says ,” Jerusalem Post, October 24, 2025 and “ Mediators said to meet in Cairo to discuss Gaza truce’ s second phase ,” Times of Israel , November 25, 2025. 9 “Gaza technocratic panel unlikely to enter Gaza this week, with no date set for start of operations ,” Times of Israel , February 10, 2025. Figure 3. President Trump at the Peace Summit in Egypt October 2025 Source: The White House . Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 5 secure humanitarian corridors; and undertake such additional tasks as may be necessary in support of the Comprehensive Plan.10 Reported ly, some Palestinians from Gaza, including a number who have remained on the PA’s payroll since Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007, have received police training from Egypt and Jordan to prepare them to assume roles in preserving law and order in Gaza un der the transitional government referenced in the U.S. 20 -point plan. Some 7,500 -10,000 vetted Palestinians may receive police training from Egypt, Jordan, and the European Union.11 As “phase 2” requires the disarmament of Hamas, Egypt and other nations12 may be advocating for a plan that initially entails Hamas voluntarily relinquishing some of its arms. According to unnamed officials cited in the media, one draft plan suggests that the Trump Administration is calling for Hamas to surrender all of its rockets and missiles capable of striking Israel, but will allow the group to keep some small arms .13 The Rafah Crossing between Gaza and Egypt Rafah is a border area historically split between Gaza and Egypt. During the Israel -Hamas war in spring 202 4, Israel, in order to pressure Hamas and cut off its only non -Israeli border crossing, seized control over the Gazan side of Rafah, shut down the crossing to passengers , and cut off humanitarian aid deliveries via the Gaza -Egypt border . For almost two yea rs, the crossing remained closed, and the Rafah crossing’s status became a source of consternation between the Israeli and Egyptian governments. Israel accused Egypt of turning a blind eye to Hamas ’ underground smuggling tunnels in Rafah , while Egypt accus ed Israel of violating the 1979 Israel -Egypt peace treaty by stationing military