trans ferred more than 5, 700 Islamic State prisoners formerly secured by U.S. partner s in the Syrian Democratic F orces (SDF) to neighboring Iraq following the Syrian government’s 2026 advance. The United States and European Union have extended broad sanctions re lief to the interim government in a bid to encourage investment and prevent economic collapse and humanitarian pressures from derailing the transition. Announced changes to U.S. and international sanctions on Syria have create d possibilities for more robus t investment, trade, and economic growth, but Syrians are grappling with the negative effects of decades of misrule and sanctions amid the strife and destructive consequences of a decade -plus-long civil war. Governance and security arrangements in northeast and southern Syria remain a central dilemma for transitional leaders and the minority communities in these areas. Neighboring countries, including Turkey and Israel, have security concerns about these regio ns and are acting inside Syria in pursuit of their preferred outcomes. Turkey opposes Syrian Kurds’ aspirations for autonomy or decentralization , citing links between Kurdish elements of the SDF and the Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK), a U.S.-designated For eign Terrorist Organization. The PKK announced in early 2025 that it would dissolve and disarm. January 2026 SDF-government agreements set terms for the integration of some SDF fighters into special brigades. Israel has struck military targets across Syria since December 2024 to neutralize Syrian capabilities, enforce its desire to see Syria’s three southern governorates remain a demilitarized zone, and in what it describes as a bid to protect the Syrian Druze minority community. Israel -Turkey tensions over Syria raise continuing risks of confrontation. In Congress, many Members welcomed the fall of the Asad government and the setbacks it created for Iran and Russia. Members have debated U.S. policy toward the Syrian government, with some advocating for the elimination of remaining U.S. sanctions on Syria and others expressing concern about the intentions and actions of Syria’s transitional leaders and advising a more gradual and conditional approach. President Donald Trump has acted to remove many Asad -era sanctions on Syria using authorities delegated to the President by Congress; President Trump also has revised other Syria -related sancti ons mechanisms to preserve his ability to impose new sanctions based on future developments in Syria. Congress repealed the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act and has authorized funding for the continued provision of military assistance to U.S. partners , though the future of the U.S. military presence is uncertain . Legislative questions for Congress include whether and on what terms to authorize and appropriate funds for U.S. assistance and security operations in Syria; whether and to what extent to rescind , revise, or reenact laws providing for Syria -related sanctions ; and how best to influence executive branch policies and shape the decisions of Syrian authorities, and U.S. partners and adversaries. RL33487 February 26, 2026 Christopher M. Blanchard Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy Congressional Research Service Contents Overview and Key Developments ................................ ................................ ................................