force, the first official overflight mission occurred in 2002. The parties conduct approximately 100 observation flights each year. In recen t years, the United States has received four to nine observation flights from Russia and has conducted 14 -16 flights over Russia each year, although there were no flights in 2018 . The United States also occasionally uses its open skies aircraft to monitor natural disasters, such as the recent earthquake in Haiti. It has also joined with Ukraine and other participants to conduct flights over Ukraine that can monitor Russian military forces across the border in Russia. In recent years, the United States raise d concerns about Russia’s compliance with the Open Skies Treaty. For several years, the U.S. State Department’s annual report on compliance with arms control agreements noted that Russia had refused access for Open Skies observation over Chechnya and nearb y areas of southwestern Russia and had limited access to a region over Moscow. It had also f ailed to provide priority flight clearance for Open Skies flights on a few occasions. These issues no longer appear in the reports. The reports still note, however, that Russia has limited access along the border of Russia with the Georgian regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia because it considers these areas to be independent states, and that it has restricted the duration of flights over its Kaliningrad region to 500 kilometers to reduce disruptions to commercial air traffic. The United States responded to limitations imposed by Russia by restricting Russian flights over the United States. In late 2017, it limited the length of flights over Hawaii and removed access to two U.S. air force bases the Russians used to overnight during their missions over the United States. In 2018, the United States also blocked approval of Russia’s use of new cameras on its Open Skies Airc raft, although it reversed this decision quickly and flights resumed in 2019. Although the treaty parties sought to resolve concerns about Russia’s compliance with the treaty in the Open Skies Consultative Commission, the United States cited these concerns when it announced its intention to withdraw from the treaty in May 2020. Trump Administration officials also claimed that Russia might be using its observation flights to support its “doctrine of targeting ... critical infrastructure targets with conventi onally a rmed precision -guided missiles.” The official noted that Russia did not violate the treaty by conducting flights over c ivilian Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 50 infrastructure, but that it would be “problematic” if Russia used this data for military targeting.212 The official did no t, however, explain how this data would aid Russia’s military targeting when Russia could already collect targeting data with through its satellite operations. Arms Control Between the United States and States of the Former Soviet Union 1970s: SALT I and S ALT II The United States and Soviet Union signed their first formal agreements limiting nuclear offensive and defensive weapons in