successor to the Soviet President in the command and control structure for Soviet nuclear weapons and he, along with his Minister of Defense and Military Chief of Staff, have the codes needed to launch Soviet nuclear weapons. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 55 1994, after insisting on and apparently recei ving additional security assurances from the United States, Russia, and the United Kingdom . START officially entered into force with the exchange of the instruments of ratification on December 5, 1994. START Provisions START limit ed long-range nuclear forc es—land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs), submarine -launched ballistic missiles (SLBMs), and heavy bombers —in the United States and the newly independent states of the fo rmer Soviet Union. Each side could deploy up to 6,000 attributed warh eads on 1,600 ballistic missiles and bombers. (Some weapons carried on bombers do not count against the t reaty’s limits, so each side could deploy 8,000 or 9,00 0 actual weapons.) Each side could deploy up to 4,900 warheads on ICBMs and SLBMs. Throughout th e START negotiations, the United States placed a high priority on reductions in heavy ICBMs because they were thought to be able to threaten a first strike against U.S. ICBMs. Therefore, START also limits each side to 1,540 warheads on “heavy” ICBMs, a 50% reduction in the number of warheads deployed on the SS -18 ICBMs in the former Soviet republics. START did not require the elimination of most of the missiles removed from service. The nations had to eliminate launchers for missiles that exceeded the permi tted totals, but, in most cases, missiles could be placed in storage and warheads could either be stored or reused on missiles remaining in the force. START contain ed a complex verification regime. Both sides collect most of the information needed to verif y compliance with their own satellites and remote sensing equipment —the National Technical Means of Verification (NTM). But the parties also use d data exchanges, notifications, and on -site inspections to gather information about forces and act ivities limit ed by the treaty. Taken together, these measures are designed to provide each nation with the ability to deter and detect militarily significant violations. (No verification regime can ensure the detection of all violations. A determined cheater could prob ably find a way to conceal some types of violations.) Many also believe that the intrusiveness mandated by the START verification regime and the cooperation needed to impleme nt many of these measures built confidence and encouraged openness among the signa tories. The United States and Russia completed the reductions in their forces by the designated date of December 5, 2001. All the warheads from 104 SS -18 ICBMs in Kazakhstan were removed and returned to Russia and all the launchers in that nation have been destroyed. Ukraine has destroyed all the SS -19 ICBM and SS -24 ICBM launchers on its territory and returned all the warheads from those missiles to Russia.