Woolf , and CRS Report RL31222, Arms Control and Strategic Nuclear Weapons: Unilateral vs. Bilateral Reductions , by Amy F. Woolf . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 62 replaced by another agreement. It lapsed, however, on February 5, 2011, when the New START Treaty (see below) entered into force. Treaty Provisions Article I contained the only limit in the t reaty, stating that the United States and Russia will reduce their “strategic nuclear warheads” to between 1,700 and 2,200 warheads by December 31, 2012. T he text did not define “strategic nuclear warheads” and, therefore, did not indicate whether the parties would count only those warheads that are “operationally deployed,” all warheads that would count under the START counting rules, or some other quantity of nuclear warheads. The text did refer to statements made by Presidents Bush and Putin in November and December 2001, when each outlined their own reduction plans. This reference may have indicate d that the United States and Russia could each use their o wn definition when counting strategic nuclear warheads. The Treaty did not limit delivery vehicles or impose sublimits on specific types of weapons systems. Each party could determine its own “composition and structure of its strategic offensive arms.” Monitoring and Verification The Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty did not contain any monitoring or verification provisi ons. The Bush Administration noted that the United States and Russia already collect ed information about strategic nuclear forces un der START I and during implementation of the Nunn -Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. Some in Congress questioned, however, whether this information would be suff icient for the duration of the t reaty, since START I was due to expire in 2009, three years before the end of implementation under the new treaty. Nonstrategic Nuclear Weapons The Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty also did not contain any limits or restrictions on nonstrategic nuclear weapons. Yet, as was noted abov e, many Members of Co ngress had argued that these weapons pose a greater threat to the United States and its allies than strategic nuclear weapons. During hearings before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld and Secretary of State Powell both a greed that the disposition of nonstrategic nuclear weapons should be on the agenda for future meetings between the United States and Russia, although neither supported a formal arms control regime to limit or contain these weapons. These discussions did no t occur , and many analysts outside government have renewed their calls for reductions in nonstrategic nuclear weapons. 2010s: New START The United States and Russia began to discuss their options for arms control after START in mid - 2006. During the Bush Ad ministration, they were unable to agree on a path forward. Neither side wanted to extend START in its original form, as some of the t reaty’s provisions had begun to interfere with some military programs on both sides. Russia want ed to replace START