fruit in the latter half of President Reagan’s second term, with the signing of the Intermediate -Range Nuclear Forces Treaty in 1987. Presiden t George H. W. Bush continued to pursue the first Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START), with the United States and Soviet Union , signing this Treaty in July 1991. The collapse of the Soviet Union later that year led to calls for deeper reductions in str ategic offensive arms. As a result, the United States and Russia signed START II in January 1993, weeks before the end of the Bush Administration. The Intermediate -Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty In December 1979, NATO decided upon a “two track” approach to intermediate -range nuclear forces (INF) in Europe: it would seek negotiations with the Soviets to limit such systems, and at the same time schedule deployments as a spur to such negotiations. Negotiating sessions began in the fall of 1980 and continued until November 1983, when the Soviets left the talks upon deployment of the first U.S. INF systems in Europe. The negotiations resumed in January 1985. At the negotiations, the Reagan Administration initially called for a “double zero” option, which would eliminate all short - as well as long -range INF systems, a position at the time viewed by most observers to be unattractive to the Soviets. The negotiations proceeded to discuss possible limits on the systems, with progress slowed by the Soviet refusal to consider limits on its systems in Asia. Nevertheless, significant progress began to occur during the Gorbachev regime. At the Reykjavik summit in October 1986, Gorbachev agreed to include reductions of Soviet INF systems in Asia. Then, in June 1987, the So viets proposed a global ban on short - and long -range INF systems, which was similar to the U.S. proposal for a double zero. Gorbachev also accepted the U.S. proposal for an intrusive verification regime. The United States and the Soviet Union signed the Tr eaty on Intermediate -Range Nuclear Forces (INF) on December 8, 1987. The INF Treaty was seen as a significant milestone in arms control because it established an intrusive verification regime and because it eliminated entire classes of weapons that both si des regarded as modern and effective. The United States and Soviet Union agreed to destroy all intermediate -range and shorter -range nuclear -armed ballistic missiles and ground -launched cruise missiles, which are those missiles with a range between 300 and 3,400 miles. The launchers associated with the controlled missiles were also to be destroyed. The signatories agreed that the warheads and guidance systems of the missiles need not be destroyed; they could be used or reconfigured for other systems not cont rolled by the t reaty. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 53 The Soviets agreed to destroy approximately 1 ,750 missiles and the United States agreed to destroy 846 missiles, establishing a principle that asymmetrical reductions were acceptable in order to achieve a goal of greater stability. On