concerns over the proliferation of covert biological weapons programs, certain biological agents and research/production equipment were added to the control list. Australia Group guidelines do not call for prohibiting the export of control list items, but 186 See http://www.nuclearsuppliersgroup.org for NSG website. 187 The new guidelines appeared as an International Atomic Energy Agency document, INFCIRC/254/Rev.1/Part 1 and Part 2, July 1992. 188 See https://nuclearsuppliersgroup.org/ index.php/ en/guidelines/ updates -and-explanations . Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 40 rather establishin g monitoring and licensing procedures, with export denial only if there is reason to suspect potential contribution to a CBW program. Since its inception, the Australia Group has added controls on the transfer of information and knowledge that could aid BW proliferation. These include “catch -all” constraints covering items that are not on control lists, adding eight toxins to the control list, adopting controls on technology associated with dual -use biological equipment, and agreeing to control intangible t echnology transfer that could be used to advance CBW programs.189 The Australia Group does not have an independent administrative organization , but the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade maintains its secretariat .190 National governments admi nister their own export control programs. As an informal effort, the Australia Group is not based on international treaty, is not affiliated with any international organization, and has no independent administrative structure. The group operates entirely by consensus ; its decisions are not binding. Countries are admitted to membership only upon the full consensus of current members, and they must have demonstrated compliance with the CWC and BWC and have an effective export control regime. Article XI of the Chemical Weapons Convention states that states parties will not maintain among themselves any restrictions, including those in any international agreements, incompatible with the obligations undertaken under this Convention, which would restrict or impede trade and the development and promotion of scientific a nd technological knowledge. The Australia Group maintains that its export control regime is compatible with the objectives of the convention and therefore not prohibited. The Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) The United States, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, and the U nited Kingdom established the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) on April 16, 1987. Designed to slow the proliferation of ballistic and cruise missiles, rockets, and unmanned air vehicles (UA V s) capable of delivering weapons of mass destruction, the MTCR is an informal, voluntary arrangement in which participants agree to adhere to common export policy guidelines applied to an “annex” that lists controlled items. MTCR p artner s adopt the guidelines as national policy and are responsible for restraining their own missile -related transfers. In addition, partners regularly exchange information on relevant export licensing issues, including denials of technology transfers. The MTCR has neither an independent means to verify whether states are adhering to it s guidelines nor a mechanism to penalize states if they violate them. Analysts credit the MTCR with slowing missile development in Brazil and