daunting challenges as they seek to reconstruct a functioning state apparatus that can protect Syrian sovereignty and citizens , rebuild national infrastructure, and establish a self -sustaining , productive economy. Interim leade rs’ willingness to share power and the durability of the peace that generally has prevailed in Syria since mid -December 2024 may continue to be tested . Stressors may include decisions made regarding the political and security future of northeast Syria ; the relative integration and participation in the transition of Druze communities in southern Syria ; the protection of the rights of Syrian minorities and women ; the possibility of renewed or expanded foreign military intervention; and the willingness of Syri ans to uphold order in the face of severe humanitarian crises, economic deprivation, sectarian violence, and vigilantism . Outside actors continue to approach Syria in pursuit of their discrete interests. Many regional countries have pledged support for th e transition in Syria, but the compatibility of their goals and Syrians’ willingness to embrace them are uncertain . Israeli military operations in Syria and the Golan Heights region , Israeli actions to protect Syrian minority groups, and Israeli government demands that Syria’s government accept limits on Syrian security and military operations in southern Syria may lead to confrontation. The possibility of Turkish military intervention in the context of disputes over the future of the northeast remains pres ent. Outside actors, including the United States, may weigh concerns about the resumption of conflict in Syria and the reemergence of transnational terrorist threats alongside goals of support ing and shap ing the political transition, stabilization, and reconstruction efforts . In this context, Congress and the Trump Administrati on may continue to reassess U.S. interests in Syria and debate approaches toward securing them relative to U.S. priorities elsewhere. U.S. policy toward Syria since 2011 has pursued parallel and at times competing interests and has featured a mix of evolvi ng diplomatic, military, assistance , and sanctions efforts. Views in Congress and successive Administrations regarding how the United States should approach Syria policy have at times been divergent and have changed over time and in response to development s at home and abroad . Looking ahead, the 119th Congress may use its national security tools and authorities to examine and shape U.S. policies toward Syria’s interim government, various Syrian groups, and regional and international parties active in Syria. As it does so, Members may consider and debate several policy questions: How should United States counterterrorism operations in Syria evolve ? Eliminating threats to the United States and U.S. national security interests posed by terrorist groups active in Syria has been a consistent goal of U.S. policy toward Syria since the Obama Administration. Through January 2026, the United States maintained a military presence in southern and northeastern Syria tasked with conducting operations against terrorist groups and supporting local partner forces in ensuring the enduring defeat of the Islamic State organization. This inc luded the provision of support to partner forces that were