declined to sign the t reaty after failing to gain certain temporary exceptions to treaty language. Specifically, the United States wanted the option of continuing APL use on the Korean Peninsula until 2006, as well as the ability to include nonpersistent APL (or “devices”) within antitank landmine munitions. President Clinton suggested that the United States would sign the Ottawa Treaty in 2006 if effective alternatives to APL s were available. In February 2004, the Bush Administration announced that after 2010 the United States would not use any type of per sistent landmines, whether ant ipersonnel or anti vehicle. The Administration also indicated that the United States would develop alternatives to persistent landmines . This policy did not include a date to join the Ottawa Treaty. Various U.S. landmine systems were reportedly prepositione d in the Middle East in preparation for the 2003 war in Iraq but were not used. The Obama Administration conduc ted a review of U.S. policy regarding landmine s. On June 27, 2014, during the Third Review Conference of the Ottawa Convention , the United States announced that it would not “ produce or otherwise acquire any anti -personnel landmines in the future,” including for the purpose of replacing expiring stockpiles. The Administration a lso conducted “a high fidelity modeling and simulation effort to ascertain how to mitigate the risks associated with the loss” of such mines.172 On September 23, 2014, the Obama Administration stated that the United States would align its “APL policy outsid e the Korean Peninsula with the key requirements of the Ottawa Convention.” Specifically, the Administration stated that the United States would “not use APL outside the Korean Peninsula; not assist, encourage, or induce anyone outside the Korean Peninsula to engage in activity prohibited by the Ottawa Convention; and [would] undertake to destroy APL stockpiles not required for the defense of the Republic of Korea.”173 Puneet Talwar, Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of Political -Military Affairs, stated on December 9 , 2014, that the United States wa s “pursuing solutions that would be compliant with the convention and that would ultimately allow us to accede to the convention while ensuring that we are still able to meet our alliance commitments” to South Korea. In January 2016, t he Obama Administration issued Presidential Policy Directive -37 (PPD -37), which forbade the use of APLs “outside the Korean Peninsula,” as well as assisting, encouraging, or inducing “anyone outside the Korean Peninsula to e ngage in activity prohibited by the Ottawa Convention.” In January 2020, the Department of Defense (DOD) announced a new APL policy.174 According to a January 31, 2020 DOD memorandum, President Trump, subsequent to an internal DOD review, “decided to cancel ” PPD -37. The DOD memorandum permitted Combatant Commanders to authorize the use of nonpersistent APLs regardless of geographic location “when necessary for 172 The White House Office of the Press S ecretary, “Statement by NSC Spokesperson Caitlin Hayden on U.S. Anti - Personnel Landmine Policy,” June 27, 2014. 173