the Missile Technology Control Regime, and the Australia Group. They also include the Nuclear Non -Proliferation Treaty, the Biologic al and Toxicological Weapons Convention, and the Chemical Weapons Convention. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 43 List. The decision to allow or deny transfer of an item is t he sole responsibility of each participating s tate. The control lists are updated freq uently. Participating s tates report all transfers or licenses issued for sensitiv e dual -use goods or technology a nd all deliveries of items on the Munitions List. The data exchange identifies the supplier, recipient, and items transferred. Participating s tates also report export license denials for dual-use items to nonmember states; t his information concerning license denials is shared either individually or in the aggregate, depending on the items’ sensitivity . Participating governments also notify each o ther on an “aggregate basis, twice per year” of export licenses issued for or transfers of items on the Sensitive and Very Sensitive Lists. The a rrangement does not prohibit a participating country from making an export that has been denied by another part icipant (this practice is called “undercutting”). But participants are required to report no later than 60 days after approving an export license for dual -use goods that are “essentially identical ” to those that have been denied by another participant duri ng the previous three years. During plenary and working group discussions, participating s tates voluntarily share information on potential threats to peace and stability and examine dangerous acquisition trends. The participants review the scope of reporti ng and coordinating national control policies and develop further guidelines and procedures. European Conventional Arms Control Conventional Armed Forces in Europe Treaty (CFE) In late 1990, 22 members of NATO and the Warsaw Pact signed the Conventional Ar med Forces in Europe (CFE) Treaty, agreeing to limit NATO and Warsaw Pact nonnuclear forces in an area from the Atlantic Ocean to the Ural Mountains. The CFE treaty did not anticipate the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact. Consequently, t he participants signed the so -called “Tashkent Agreement” in May 1992, allocating responsibility for the Soviet Union’s Treaty - Limited items of Equipment (TLEs) among Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Moldova, Russia, Ukraine, and Georgia. It also established equipment ceilings for each nation and the implied responsibility for the destruction/transfer of equipment necessary to meet these national ceilings. In 1999, the CFE Adaptation Agreement was signed to further adjust to the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact and the expansion of NATO. As discussed below, this agreement has not entered into force pending its ratification by NATO members , and Russia suspended its participation in the CFE Treaty in 2007 . In 2023, Russia withdrew from the agreement, a move that was followed by U.S. and NATO suspension of their obligations under the treaty. In 2024, Belarus, Turkey, and Hungary also announced that they would exit the treaty. Key Limits and