munitions that can detect and engage a single target or explosive submunitions equipped with an electronic self -destruction or self -deactivating feature184—an exemption that seemingly permits sensor -fuzed or “smart” cl uster submunitions. Export Controls Zangger Committee In 1971, a group of seven NPT nuclear supplier nations formed the Nuclear Exporters Committee, known as the Zangger Committee, to assist in restricting nuclear trade as called for in Article III of the NPT. In 1974, the Zangger Committee compiled a list of nuclear export items that could be potentially useful for military applications of nuclear technology. The nuclear suppliers agreed that the transfer of items on the list would “trigger” a requirement for IAEA safeguards to ensure that the items were not used to make nuclear explosives. The Zangger list included reactors, reactor components, and certain nuclear materials such as heavy water. In recent years, the list of controlled items has been expanded and updated. Membership is voluntary and implies no formal commitments for enforcement of the guidelines. As of June 2025 , the Zangger Committee had 3 9 members, including all five NP T-recognized nuclear weapon states. The committee meets twice each year to exchange information and u pgrade its list of controlled commodities.185 Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) International nuclear controls are coordinated by an informal association of 48 nuclear exporters called the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG), founded in 1975. Shaken by the 1974 test of a nuclear explosive device by India, the major nuclear suppliers in 1975 established a set of unpublished 179 Arms Control Association Fact Sheet , “Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons Convention (CCW) at a Glance, ” Washington, DC, October 2007. 180 Kevin Sullivan and Josh White, “111 Nations, Minus the U.S., Agree to Cluster -Bomb Ban, ” Washington Post , May 29, 2008. 181 Convention on Cluster Munitions Homepage , http://www.clusterconvention.org/ . 182 Marina Malenic, “Dozens of Nations Sign Cluster Bomb Treaty, U.S. Begins Upgrading Related Technology, ” Defense Daily , December 5, 2008. 183 Diplomatic Conference for the Adoption of a Convention on Cluster Munitions, Convention on Cluster Munitions, Dublin, Ireland, May 30, 2008 , http://www.clustermunitionsdublin.ie/ documents.asp . 184 Ibid. 185 See http://www.zanggercommittee.org/ for Zangger website. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 39 nuclear export guidelines.186 In 1978, the group, known as the London Club, added new members and announced a common policy regarding nuclear export s. While the NPT’s Zangger list initially included only nuclear materials and components used directly in weapons development, the London Club adopted more restrictive export control guidelines that included some dual -use items, with civil and military app lications. The NSG guidelines called for suppliers to exercise restraint regarding transfers of enrichment and reprocessing technology, and required the provision of physical security for transferred nuclear facilities and materials, acceptance of safeguar ds on replicated facilities (based on a design transferred from a London Club member - state), and prohibitions against retransfer of nuclear exports to third parties. Concerned about Iraq’s successful