their entire nuclear program. This standard was a dopted by NSG members in 1992. The act also established a requirement of prior U.S. approval for retransfers or reprocessing of material or equipment , as well as to material produced using U.S. - exported technology. These measures gave the United States muc h more control over the foreign uses of U.S. -origin nuclear material. Title III of the NNPA includes such varied measures as requiring the Department of Energy to obtain NRC licenses to distribute source and special material and establishment of criteria f or terminating nuclear exports from the United States (which affects bilateral nuclear cooperation agreements) to include detonation of a nuclear device, termination/abrogation or violation of IAEA safeguards, or engaging in activities involving nuclear ma terial that have significance in the manufacture of nuclear explosive devices (covering a wide array of activities). Additional prohibited acts included violating a nuclear cooperation agreement with the United States; assisting a nonnuclear -weapon state i n activities involving nuclear material that could potentially help in the manufacture or acquisition of a nuclear explosive device; or enriching any U.S. source or special material without the permission of the United States. The NNPA requires (in Section 240 This section drawn from CRS Report RL31502, Nuclear, Biological, Chemical, and Missile Proliferation Sanctions: Selected Current Law , by Dianne E. Rennack . 241 P.L. 83 -703, 42 U.S.C. 2011. 242 P.L. 95 -242, 22 U.S.C. 3201. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 80 601) the President to repo rt annually to Congress on the g overnment’s efforts to prevent nuclear proliferation. The Arms Export Control Act (AECA)243 The Arms Export Control Act (AECA), as amended, authorizes U.S. government military sales, loans, leases, financing, and licensing of commercial arms sales to other countries. The AECA coordinates such actions with other foreign policy considerations, including nonproliferation, and determines eligibility of recipients for military exports, sales, leases, loan s, and financing. • Section 3(f) (22 U.S.C. 2753(f)) prohibits U.S. military sales or leases to any country that the President determines is in material breach of binding commitments to the United States under international treaties or agreements regarding n onproliferation of nuclear explosive devices and unsafeguarded special nuclear material. • Section 40 (22 U.S.C. 2780) prohibits exports or assistance in exporting (financial or otherwise) munitions to countries that provide support for terrorism. Included i n the definition of acts of international terrorism are “all activities that the Secretary [of State] determines willfully aid or abet the international proliferation of nuclear explosive devices to individuals or groups or willfully aid or abet an individ ual or groups in acquiring unsafeguarded special nuclear material.” The President can rescind a determination or waive sanctions if essential to the national security interests of the United States. • Section 101 (22 U.S.C. 2799aa) (formerly S ection 669 of t he Foreign Assistance Act) prohibits foreign economic or military assistance to countries that deliver or receive nuclear enrichment equipment,