, who is serving his third and constitutionally proscribed final term (ends in 2030), originally hails from the military, which, since 1952, has largely served as the bedrock of the country’s ruling elite. Egypt’s military has long taken an active role in the nation’s economy, competing with private sector compani es in an array of sectors, such as food production, construction, mining , and manufacturing.4 Without being able to generate surplus revenue domestically, Egypt will continue to rely on the largesse of Arab Gulf monarchies, Israel (for natural gas), European institutions, and increasingly, new partners such as Turkey (Türkiye) and the People’s Repu blic of China , for aid, investment, and hard currency . In return, outside actors may expect Egypt to side with their foreign policy 1 IMF, “ IMF Staff Reaches Staff Level Agreement on Egypt’s Fifth and Sixth Review Under the Extended Fund Facility and First Review Under the Resilience and Sustainability Fund , December 22, 2025. 2 Claire Parker and Heba Farouk Mahfouz , “How Egypt is reviving the Suez Canal after maritime attacks sank traffic,” Washington Post , January 21, 2 026. 3 Ahmed Aboudouh , “Egypt’s foreign policy will remain too little, too late in 2026,” Chatham House, December 19, 2025. 4 Yezid Sayigh, “ Owners of the Republic: An Anatomy of Egypt’s Military Economy ,” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, November 18, 2019. Egypt: Background and U.S. Relations Congressional Research Service 2 priorities, as regional states continue to vie with each other for influence in the Middle East and the Horn of Africa. Even with its limited resource s, Egypt will likely continue to prioritize its longstanding goal of seeking binding , international ly supervised limits on Ethiopia’s use of its own Grand Renaissance Dam to restrict flows of the Nile River, which Egypt is depende nt on for almost all of its freshwater. In sum, Egypt has limited foreign policy maneuverability due to its extreme dependence on others . Figure 1. Map of Egypt Source: CRS, using ESRI and State Department data and the CIA World Fact book. Historical Background Since 1952, when a cabal of Egyptian Army officers known as the Free Officers Movement ousted the British -backed king, Egypt’s military has produced four Presidents : Gam al Abdel Nasser (1954 -1970), Anwar Sadat (1970 -1981), Hosni Mubarak (1981 -2011), and Abdel Fattah a l Sisi (2013 -present). These four men have ruled Egypt with strong backing from the country’s security establishment almost continually. The one departure f rom Egypt’s decades of military rule took place between 2011 and 2013 . Popular demonstrations dubbed the “Arab Spring,” which had started in neighboring Tunisia, spurred the military to force the resignation of former President Hosni Mubarak in February 20 11. During this period, Egypt experienced tremendous political tumult, culminating in the one-year presidency of M ohamm ed Morsi, who was affiliated with the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood . In general, the Muslim Brotherhood has been the most significant and a biding opposition during