EAA coordinates such actions with other foreign policy considerations, includi ng nonproliferation, and determines eligibility of recipients for exports. Section 5 (50 U.S.C. app. 2404) authorizes the President to curtail or prohibit the export of any goods or services for national security reasons: to comply with other laws regardi ng a potential recipient country’s political status or political stability, to cooperate with international agreements or understandings, or to protect militarily critical technologies. Section 6 (50 U.S.C. app. 2405) authorizes the President to curtail o r prohibit the export of goods or services for foreign policy reasons. Within Section 6, for example, Section 6(j) establishes the State Department’s list of countries found to be supporting acts of international terrorism, a list on which many other restr ictions and prohibitions in law are based. Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 The Export -Import Bank Act of 1945 (P.L. 79 -173) establishes the Export -Import Bank of the United States and authorizes the Bank to finance and facilitate exports and imports and the exchange of commodities and services between the United States and foreign countries. Key nuclear -nonproliferation -related provisions were added in 1978. These include Section 2(b)(1)(B) (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(1)(B)) and Section 2(b)(4) (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(4)), which together allow the Bank to deny credit generally if that credit does not help advance U.S. nuclear proliferation policy, and specifically, if a person or country has (1) violated, abrogated or terminated a nuclear safeguards agreements , (2) violated a nuclear cooperation agreement with the United States , or (3) aided or abetted a nonnuclear -weapon state to acquire a nuclear explosive device or to acquire unsafeguarded special nuclear material. There is a provision for presidential waiver. The Export -Import Bank Act of 1945 was amended in 2002245 to allow denial of Ex -Im Bank financing for violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Arms Export Control Act, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act , or the Export Administration A ct of 1979, extending its purview from strictly nuclear to CW, BW, and missile -related concerns. Nuclear Proliferation Prevention Act of 1994 In 1994 Congress approved the Nucle ar Proliferation Prevention Act (NPPA, Title VIII, of the Foreign Relations Aut horization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995, P.L. 103 -236), which primarily strengthened penalties against persons who aid or abet the acquisition of nuclear weapons or unsafeguarded nuclear weapons materials, or countries (nonnuclear -weapon states) that obtain or explode nuclear devices. Sanctions include cutoff of U.S. assistance, prohibition on involvement with U.S. government procurement, stringent licensing requirements for technology exports, and 244 See CRS Report R41916, The U.S. Export Control System and the Export Control Reform Initiative , by Ian F. Fergusson and Paul K. Kerr . 245 See The Export -Import Bank Reauthorization Act of 20 02, P.L. 107 -189. Arms Control and Nonproliferation: A Catalog of Treaties and Agreements Congressional Research Service 82 opposition to loans or credits from international financial institutions. These sanctions were imposed on India and Pakistan following their nuclear